The God Chord: String

Theory In The Land-

scape of the Heart

Robert L. Schrag, Ph.D.

Published: 2008

Tag(s): metaphysics harmony zen "theoretical physics"

"string theory" "brane theory" "super string theory" spirituality healing "peace of mind" meaning "theory of everything" universe "nature of the universe"

Part 1

Foreword

What is String Theory?

String theory, which first came to public and professional attention in the mid-1980s, continues to excite conversation and debate in theoretical physics. Growing out of the efforts of mathematicians to resolve conflicts between the math of Einstein’s special relativity and the math of quantum mechanics, string theory reveals that the fundamental building block of the universe, the irreducible unit from which everything else is constructed is an inconceivably tiny vibrating string. This work examines the implications of string theory in a landscape often seen as remote from physics – the metaphysical heart, our emotional most “human “ realm. I use a variety of musical forms as I propose this Chord Theory for you. Sometimes pieces of it seem to get the wrong way round, sometimes more syncopated than melodic. I hope you will excuse these occasional confusions, but they are the inevitable handmaidens to the spirit in which this work is offered — an exploration in the harmonic nature of life, existence and the universe.

*Although this version of the work carries a 2008 publication date, it was written between 2001 and 2004. Its age shows occasionally, for which I apologize. I also apologize, most profoundly, for the unintentional omission of the last two units of the book; Improvisation #4: Un- chaining the Melodies of Art, and Improvisation #5: Where Does God Fit In? from the first publication of the work.

The good news is that the new Feedbooks publishing interface, while still lacking the ability to include illustrations, does now allow for italics, underlining and more precise control of placing text on the page. This new version reflects those capabilities. You may still email me at Robert.Schrag@gmail.com and I will send you an rtf version of the manuscript that contains all the illustrations.

1

Chapter

Prelude to The Conjec-

tural Symphony

The memory is clear. I am sitting on a concrete abutment in the parking lot of the Santa Fe Opera, just outside Santa Fe, New Mexico. My back is to the Opera House. I can hear the orchestra tuning up. The sun is beginning to dip toward the horizon behind me. I watch the clouds that recently flung a brief, fierce, thunderstorm against the mountains work their way over the crests and into the darkening eastern sky. My daughters, North Carolina girls who have never been west before, watch the growing crowd with interest, fascinated by the way crystal and diamonds and silver and turquoise can mingle with cowboy boots and blue jeans in a pastiche of relaxed elegance. Suddenly, a collective inhalation as a rainbow, inconceivably wide, paints mountain and valley, cloud and canyon with brilliant hues. It is one of those moments when you are aware of the beauty, and the power, and the complexity of the world in which you live – when you find yourself asking “What does it all mean?”

For most of us it is a purely rhetorical question. Just asking it seems enough. It’s not as though we really want to sit down and explore a “theory of everything.”

Yet, pursuing that rather audacious goal – a theory of everything — is precisely what physicists have been doing with increasing success over the past 50 years. I recently re-read Brian Greene’s fascinating work The El- egant Universe and was enthralled.

Greene—whose

work we will visit in the course of this book—outlines with admirable clarity the progress that has been made toward this elusive goal. String theory is the “state of the art” of this progress and, as such, is making very serious claims to be the holy grail of physics, that “theory of everything.” According to string theory, everything in the universe is built out of incredibly tiny vibrating strings, and the characteristics of everything is determined by the rate at which its particular strings vibrate. The theory makes exquisite sense of the beginning of the universe, the nature of time and space, even the intricacies of black holes and definitions of what lies beyond the event horizon. Given those successes it strikes me that it would be intriguing and valuable to turn the lens of string theory on the really difficult issues, those that lie scattered across the landscape of the human heart. Consider the following scenes:

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

An American fifth-grader living in Vienna, Austria is ushered to a box in the world famous Staatsoper—the State Opera House. He is not rich, not an opera fan, and he has never been here before. He is just a school chum of the son of a Scandinavian ambassador. He and his pal will claim the Ambassador’s box tonight, as the usual adult occupants take a rest from the endless social obligations of diplomatic life. The two lads settle self-consciously into the opulent surroundings. The elite of one of Europe’s oldest capitals swirl below them like schools of tropical fish. Gowns and jewels nestle on the aromas of perfume, strong coffee, exotic drinks and the hint of expensive cigars. Handsome men and glamorous women banter in a half dozen different languages. A beautiful young woman, carrying a champagne bucket and a tray with glasses enters the box, and—as though the boys were men—opens the bottle, pours two glasses, and whispers a seductive

“Enjoy.” With a slight chuckle at the two stunned faces confronting her, she pulls the invisible velvet-covered door closed behind her and disappears down the corridor to serve the more jaded patrons to whom she will appear as something less than a goddess.

The lights fade like sunset in magnificent crystal chandeliers that float above the quieting throng. On stage, dawn breaks as the orchestra swells and a single heavenly voice floats across the footlights, swelling to fill every corner of the gilded hall.

Three hours later the young American bids his friend goodbye, catches the homebound street car, and settles into his seat—changed forever. He will not sing grand opera, but he will devote much of the next 15 years of his life to the theatre, and the appreciation of the power of the “dramatic moment” will remain with him forever.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

A teenager shifts her bottom vainly seeking a softer spot atop a boulder perched beside a mountain stream in the foothills of the northern California mountains. She is there for the summer with a group of high school students on an American Friends Service Committee project. They will help build cabins and serve as counselors’

assistants at a permanent treatment center for emotionally disturbed children—“takin’ care of the itsy bitsy skitsies” they learn to call it. The group’s adult leaders insist upon observing the Quaker tradition of a daily Silent Meeting for reflection and contemplation. The girl can think of other ways to spend her morning—like trying to get to know that fascinating boy from France. But a sidelong glance reveals that he is staring at the water bubbling over a partially submerged log in the middle of the stream.

One more wiggle and she manages to conform more comfortably to the millennia old rock beneath her butt. Resigned to at least another 15 minutes of “reflection and contemplation”, she relaxes in the warm morning and joins the oblivious object of her affection in the contemplation of the water rushing past. Then, slowly, through tiny increments, the light begins to shift; it becomes softer, richer, sweeter. Lifting her eyes, the girl watches as the entire scene reassembles with “soft focus.” In a couple of years she will learn to crudely mimic the effect by stretching a silk stocking tightly across the lens of her movie camera. But on this special morning there are no silk stockings, no lenses—just the intense awareness of both power and grace floating on the sound of rushing water. She looks into the eyes of strangers she met mere days ago and finds completely open looks, that mirror her own amazement at the moment.

Time stretches out long, warm and lazy, relaxed as an old dog snoozing in the sun — yet somehow miraculous. Then the adults, in mutual accord, arise with amazing alacrity saying, “Come, on now! Those cabins need shingles!” No one wants to talk about the moment by the stream, there seems to be almost an embarrassment about the unplanned moment of incredible intimacy. But from that day forward the teen goes through life utterly certain that—although the nature of the entity might always be a mystery—she is not alone. There is a powerful and peaceful unifying force that flows through life beside her.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

A young man, tonight a young father, drags a simple wooden bar stool out onto the patio, perches on it and looks up at the clear winter moon. Fingers automatically fish the newly purchased, long absent, but ever-alluring, pack of cigarettes out of his shirt pocket. The cellophane skin slips off the pack, silver foil opens to reveal rows of white circles. The match flares in the night, igniting the cylinder. The glowing tip sends wisps of acrid smoke into the cold night air. Mindless of his unconscious ritual and the dusting of snow around him, the young man contemplates the event he has just witnessed. One person became two. His brave, and very uncomfortable wife has just given birth to a tiny, pink, seemingly perfect little girl. This impossible miracle in miniature is his daughter. In less than a heartbeat he has been transfigured from child to parent, from husband to father. Looking down into her crib, touching her incredible soft cheek, he realized the pull of an immutable bond. This was not someone he had fallen in love with, this was not someone he had chosen to love, this was not someone he could stop loving. This was his daughter someone to whom he would be bound for all his life; united with all who shared his bloodline winding back across the centuries, the saints and lunatics, the heroes and villains, all those we can never deny—our family. Fixing his eyes upon the gleaming moon, now caught in the highest bare branches of the tallest oak, and hence sufficiently remote to house a deity, he breathes a semi-silent prayer: “Thank you, Lord. Thank you. And keep an eye on me, OK?” He is suddenly aware that it is three o’clock in the morning, he has no coat, and he is very cold and very tired. Reaching down to pick up the stool he is genuinely surprised to encounter a smoldering Marlboro between his fingers. He stubs it out on the concrete, tossing the butt and the rest of the pack into the trash as he stumbles inside to sleep away his first night as the one who answers to “Daddy”.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

A young woman sits with her older brother and silently curses the changes. Jim had always been the smart one, the quick-witted one, the one with the answers. But the tumor has changed all that. Deep within the brain, intimately entwined with the magic of the mind, it was slowly, inexorably stealing her brother. The theft was all the more painful for the fact that this was a brother only recently acquired. Oh, he had always been her brother – but five years separated them, and when you are young, five years seems an eternity.

Different

friends, different interests. She had always been more athletic, more out-going, more socially adept than her serious, scholarly, older brother. But in the last few years she had come to realize that not only was Jim a very wise man, but he was also funny and insightful and perhaps the most ethically admirable person she had ever known. And now her brother was dying. Damn, damn, and damn—just damn it all anyhow.

Now the gleam from the dashboard illuminated their faces. They’d been at a party at the home of one of her brother’s professors.

Jim had returned to graduate

school and was working toward a Ph.D. in demography. She’d quickly had about all the muted conversations sprinkled with “brilliant, … so sad,” and “tragic, I’m so sorry,” that she could take and was relieved when her sister-in-law came to say, “Jim’s pretty tired out. Would you go get the car?” Now, as they wound their way down from the cultured suburbs of Philadelphia toward the grittier neighborhoods and Jim and Linda’s apartment, she punched the buttons on the radio seeking solace in sound. An oldies station presented itself and the close harmony of the Everly Brothers filled the car. Jim began to sing along, strong, clear and certain. She joined in, just like in the old days, on those soft summer nights up at Dad’s home place in South Dakota, where long straight roads, bright moonlight and KIHO radio had been their only entertainment.

The Everly Brothers gave way to Buddy Holly, and then to The Big Bopper. Finally, they turned the radio off and sang by themselves. Fifties, sixties, show tunes, songs their mother had taught them; you name it, they sang it. And all night long Jim sang lead, which was how it should have been.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

A man sits with a cup of coffee and a crossword puzzle. He glances up and smiles to catch himself once again missing the blue eyes and the sweet lips, poised in a slightly sardonic smile, that should be there across the table. Firmly gripping his pencil, he drops his eyes once more to the puzzle on the table before him.

11 Across – 10 letters. The forth letter should be a “d”

if 6 down really was “arid.” OK,: “To shimmer or to gleam.” She did, didn’t she? It wasn’t just the glitter that she would dust across her cheeks and shoulders on occasion. There was something internal, an energy nigh onto bi-polar that made her just sparkle, effervesce? No. Radiate? No. That night in New York in the little Italian restaurant, the black dress with the high collar and cut away shoulders; she shimmered, she gleamed, she was, she was — iridescent! Yes! And the “t” means that

“tope” is probably right, too.

27 Down – 5 letters, meaning “State devoid of intense feeling.” Maine? No, wait, the fourth letter is a “u”? Maybe “ungulate” is wrong. Is that what he was, now that she was gone? Devoid of intense feeling? No, not really. He saw the world much more intensely these days. The blue of the sky could startle him, and the patterns of light and shadow moving across the landscape would spin him into a reverie reminiscent of life in the 60s. He’d started to draw. OK, so the selection of Flair markers as a medium was a bit strange, but the colors were so wonderfully pure and deep. Music moved him to both tears and ecstasy. No, it was only around the heart that he felt — numbed? Too many, letters, “u” in the wrong place. Blue? Bluish? Funny? Wait, move those two Ns over – ennui! “See, girl? I can do these without you. I rule. I just happen to rule in a state of iridescent ennui.”

86 Across – 8 letters: “To feel for 12 months?” God, he hated it when they put question marks after the clues. It could be anything. Let’s see. It should end in “g” to make “filigree” right. To feel for 12 months. How had he felt for the last 12 months, the last 18 months? The last 24 months when the seat across from him had been empty? Letters, phone calls, email, were a poor substitute for the lovely literary whiz cum dictionary who had sat there through so many lazy mornings. What did Buffet say? “I can’t fax you my love, I can’t email my heart.”

He just couldn’t shake this, this, this …

yearning.

“Bingo, got it, girl. ‘ Year-ning.’ To feel for 12 months.”

Terrible clue! But not nearly so terrible as having no one to share his iridescent yearning, his ennui. He folds the paper. Places his coffee cup with the others in the tray by the trash, and walks out, smiling again at the empty seat that seems to reach for him. “See you tomorrow, girl.”

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

“And what,” you legitimately ask, “does all that have to do with string theory? With the beginning of the universe? With black holes and the structure of the space time continuum?”

Everything.

Remember, it is supposed to be a theory of everything. The vignettes above are about birth, death, music, art, love, and God. They are about the things that people choose to die for, about the things that make life worth living, about the issues it is best to be at ease with before we are able to turn our intellect and energy most effectively to others things—like creating string theory. If the

“theory of everything” can explain how the universe came to be and define all the laws of its intricate functions, but sheds no light upon those human verities that color our every waking moment, then it becomes just another “theory of a whole bunch.”

I, however, am becoming increasingly convinced that string theory does lend significant predictive and explanatory insight into those seemingly “non-physics” verities. If a tiny vibrating string is the fundamental unit, is the essential building block for everything in the universe, there are profound implications for the landscape of the human heart and mind and soul. If string theory is right, then it isn’t just tiny elementary particles or huge interstellar regions that are made of strings – it is everything. It is you and I. We are composites of unimaginable billions of tiny vibrating strings. Vibrating

strings make musical notes, groups of notes make chords, groups of chords make songs and melodies. We are made of music, we are literally walking, talking, thinking, sleeping, and crying symphonies.

When I shared this thought with a dear friend and colleague, the following brief conversation emerged: Lawrence: That is a wonderful metaphor, Bobby!

Me: It’s not a metaphor.

Lawrence: What do you mean?

Me: I mean it’s not a metaphor. We really are chords –

actual notes knit together into music.

Lawrence: You’re scaring me, Bobby.

Me: It’s not scary – it’s neat. I mean, what would you rather be made of? Music or electronic particles? Lawrence: Well, given a choice, I guess music. Me: Me too.

The stories above are about people living their lives, but they are also about harmony and discord, they are about finding and losing a sense of resonance, they are about learning to carry a tune; they are about life as music. In this book I explore the idea of human beings as music. I examine how we might better understand human emotion, communication, belief and behavior if we realize that we, and everyone else, is a wonderful, unique and complex symphony that resonates in either harmonic or discordant ways with the other symphonies we encounter in the course of our lives. I realize that is an unsettling thought at first blush, but think about it for a moment – it’s better than being a collection of quarks, isn’t it?

If we are music, if everything we see, touch, taste, hear, experience is constructed on its most elemental level of tiny vibrating strings, then it is quite possible that we can take control of the harmonies that make up our lives. This work explores the idea that the physical and the metaphysical, the emotional and the intellectual are all just different faces of the same reality, are all notes in a larger score. It also suggests that if we accept that we are the primary composer and performer in the chord that is our life, and if we train ourselves for that role, then each individual portion of our day will become more harmonic and our larger life we become far more beautiful.

2

Chapter

The Conjectural Sym-

phony Movement #1:

From Strings to Notes to

Chords

We are often taught to place things into quite discrete

categories based upon their differences. Perhaps it is time to consider broader categories as we

learn more

about what makes all things similar.

It must have been about 1963 or maybe ‘64. I was still firmly ensconced in high school. My joy at the yearly visit to the farms in southeastern South Dakota was tempered somewhat by the fact that I had left my first

“serious” girlfriend at home and would occasionally suffer those pangs of mourning and isolation that only teenagers can construct. But, as always, the mystery of a horizon that ran off to nowhere and the majesty of storms that would sweep down from Canada, forcing the corn and alfalfa to sway and bow in homage, soon transported me to that strange clarity I always seem to find on the prairie.

This particular summer day provided me with a message in both humility and harmony. It began on a morning that sparkled. Dew clung to the foot-high grass the hedged the large expanse of barnyard, separating it from windbreak of trees and underbrush beyond. As my cousin Doug and I walked to the barn to do the morning milking, the ubiquitous farm cats leapt across that boundary scattering the dew into miniature rainbows. For all its clear morning delight, the day promised to be another scorcher; and the main event was bailing hay in the quarter section a mile to the south. We hurried through milking and rushed in to breakfast, anxious to begin and cheat the sun of as much sweat as possible. I had long since ceased being amazed at the immense meal that masqueraded as breakfast on a working farm.

“City kids,” I thought with the easy superiority of the newly informed, “have no idea what breakfast really should be.” But then how could they? They had, after all, been raised to believe that even tigers breakfasted on cold cereal coated with a sugary glaze. My Uncle Paul, almost obscured by the mounds of bacon, fried eggs, pancakes, toast and hash browned potatoes that challenged the strength of the table, said grace. We then proceeded to suck down what seemed to be enough food to feed an entire village, but which in reality was only a reasonable amount of fuel for the task ahead. The screen door banged shut behind us. Uncle Paul slid behind the wheel and fired the engine of the ancient pick-up truck into life. Doug and I hopped into the back with Rags, a farm dog seemingly as boneless as his namesake, as we bounced down a rutted back road to the field where our day’s labor waited.

Nowadays hay gets rolled into these huge cylinders some nine or ten feet long and six or seven feet high. You can see them scattered across fields like bizarre rabbit-droppings from the gods. But this particular summer, hay bales were still hay bales – brick shaped things maybe four feet by two feet by eighteen inches. When we arrived at the field, the bales lay where they had tumbled out of the bailer at regular intervals around the field like huge basting stitches holding the stubble to the darker earth below. Our task was simple, you hitched a big flatbed wagon behind the tractor, and one person drove the tractor slowly alongside the rows of bales. The others rode on the flatbed and took baling hooks –

wicked looking curves of metal Captain Hook would have loved, about ten inches long with a wooden handle – and, as the tractor moved past the bales, they would reach down, impale the bales with the hook and swing them smoothly up onto the flatbed where they were stacked into a giant checkerboard version of the individual bales. I was the driver. Round and round and round and soon the novelty of being the tractor jockey wore off. The sun was hot, the dew had long since burned off, and the dust was swirling up to mix with the chaff from the hay, turning the world into a boring, hot, itchy, choking, noisy, monotonous drone. My uncle and cousin appeared to be having more fun. Swing that bale up, look where it would fit into the growing wall of bales at the back of the wagon, toss the bale into place. Walk over to the edge, spot the next bales, reach down with the hook, “Thunk,”

swing it up, etc., etc. Heck, I could do that. I was young, I was strong, I was coordinated. My Uncle Paul was an old guy, I thought with that marvelous arrogance that teens are prone to – he was my Dad’s big brother for crying out loud, and Dad had to be more than fifty!

I throttled the tractor down, and stopped. “One of you guys wanna trade places?”

“Sure,” said Doug, with what I should have realized was a touch too much enthusiasim.

He hopped up to the drivers seat as I clambered aboard the hay wagon and seized the baling hook. “Let’s roll!” I hollered. The rig began to move forward again.

“All right,” said Uncle Paul as we began to overtake the next bale, “Let it go by and then hook it, oh, about a foot from the far end, and swing ‘er on up.”

“Right,” I said, drawing a bead on the bale. We overtook the bale, I reached down and swung the hook. Swoosh. Strike one.

“That’s OK,” murmured Uncle Paul, who seemed to having a little trouble catching his breath – must have been the dust. “You just swung too soon. You’ll get the next one.”

“Right,” I gritted my teeth and fixed the upcoming bale with a steely gaze. I knelt on the swaying flatbed to steady my swing. The bale drew level, I swung with awesome force and buried the hook deep into the hay. I pulled up on the hook, the bale remained absolutely still. I increased my pull, it increased its mass. I tumbled gracefully from the wagon to sprawl beside the still immobile brick of hay. My uncle and cousin collapsed in helpless laughter. Doug managed to stop the tractor, and there we sat beneath the immense blue bowl of the summer sky – the unimaginable silence broken only by the song of a single bird, and the stifled laughter coming from the haying rig.

I managed to extract the hook from the Bale of Gibraltar and, gathering up the few shreds of my dignity that I could find lying around, made my way back up to the tractor and flatbed. My uncle still had his hand over his mouth, but he could not hide the tracks that tears of mirth had cut through the dust on his face. My cousin was busily checking the bales at the back of the wagon, his shoulders shaking suspiciously. “Bringing such joy to people is a good thing,” I told myself while saying aloud. “Maybe I’ll go back to driving.”

“OK,” was all Uncle Paul could manage.

As we began to slowly circle the field again I saw the whole process through different eyes, heard it with different ears. It was no longer rough and awkward work. It was a dance of amazing grace and functionality. Doug and Uncle Paul would balance just so on the swaying rack, arms poised until at just the right moment, the hook descends in an arc catching the bale. The hook is set as they allow the pull of the tractor to break the bale free, then with a superb combination of strength and balance, they swing the bale up onto the wagon, and settle it into place. The wagon will haul the bales to the barn to await the winter snows, when it will feed the cattle and pigs who provide the milk and the beef and the pork and bacon that sustains the farmers who work the land that brings forth the grain that feeds us all. For the part of my family that had chosen to remain on the farm it was a day distinguished only by the comic relief of the cousin from the city, otherwise it was one more day of harvest in the endless cycle of the seasons. But for me it was the magic of that full cycle distilled into a single day. The value of the work was made clear as I learned how much skill was disguised by the easy grace of expertise. And somehow that revelation allowed me to sense the greater cycle of life, death, and rebirth that is clearer seen in life lived on the land. It is an awesome dance, wheeling from seeds to plants to critters to those of us who arrogantly claim dominion over the rest. And at the smallest part of the dance that I saw on that sparkling summer day, lies the string, tiny and vibrating, that sounds the note that becomes the chord that constructs the melody that underlies the symphony that is our life.

All of my life I have believed that the sense of harmony that accompanies experiences like that afternoon of haying was a feeling, an emotional or intellectual construction I brought to the experience. My reconsideration of string theory now brings me to the conclusion that such harmony is very much a state of being, that the resonance of the strings that make up earth and bale and tractor and sky and kinfolk and bird and breakfast, creates an actual chord to which we can be either attuned, or deaf. I realize that the Prelude to this book leaves the impression — you did read the Prelude, didn’t you? If you didn’t, please do. I know, I usually skip over introductions and prefaces and the like, myself; figuring that this is where the author thanks their aunts and uncles and so on, while the real book starts at chapter one, right? In novels, maybe. But this time I really did put some of the important bits up there in the Prelude. So, go back and read it, OK? No, really, no problem. I can wait –

I’m just a book for goodness sake, we’re not really having a conversation, right?

See how the Prelude sort of leaves you with the impression that we can choose to be either music or something else – quarks, or muons, or electrons – all those cool things that quantum mechanics and theoretical physics give us. But that really isn’t the case. According to string theory all those other particles are themselves made up of tiny vibrating strings; hence we are made up of tiny vibrating strings. So whether you can dance or not, you are made of music. If I am going to ask you to proceed from that assumption, there is no way we can avoid actually exploring string theory. And we shouldn’t. But, despite the fact that I love Greene’s book on string theory, whenever I read it I feel like the kid in one of Gary Larson’s The Far Side cartoons. You have probably seen it – it is one of the classroom cartoons with a bunch of kids facing an oblivious teacher and a blackboard covered with endless formulae. One kid is waving his hand in the air and the caption reads: “Teacher, can I leave now? My brain is full.” That is me reading The El- egant Universe. Those of you who didn’t always avoid calculus and physics like the bubonic plague will undoubtedly find it a less taxing read, and I do highly recommend it. But for our purposes we’re going to go with the highly abbreviated, “cramming-before-the-final” minimalist version of string theory. When I say minimalist the ideal I have in mind is one of those perfect little melodies; eight, maybe ten notes arranged and varied just so in a wonderful rhythm that captures a mood exactly. By aiming for that ideal I hope to avoid just being confusing. OK, here we go. String theory grew out of one of those wonderful anomalies of my world – the single-mindedness of academic researchers. You have to realize that university professors are, by necessity, specialists. We do live in a world in which you publish or you – well, you don’t actually perish, but you may have to go find a job where you often have to wear a tie or a skirt, and where gazing out the window for extended periods of time is not considered productive work. We will do a lot to avoid living in that world. So we become specialists in a particular way of viewing the world, and we do research and write articles and books about that way of viewing the world. String theory grew out of a couple of those specialized worlds bumping into one another in an unexpected way. As I understand it, all physicists trace their intellectual heritage back to the same set of giants, including Sir Isaac Newton, James Clerk Maxwell, Niels Bohr, and Albert Einstein. But the ways in which physicists specialize leads them to explore their world through opposite ends of a telescope. Some become entranced with general relativity which deals with the VERY BIG aspects of the universe – stars, and galaxies and nebulae and other such Star Trek-like stuff. Others become equally fixed on quantum mechanics which explores the very tiny aspects of the universe – atoms, and quarks, and muons and the like. Each group has made has made truly remarkable progress while gazing out of their respective ends of the telescope. The advocates of the VERY BIG can tell us with remarkable accuracy about the movements and origins of planets and nebulae, while the champions of the very tiny continue to chase and define ever smaller and more ephemeral particles.

But apparently these folks go to different conferences because, as Brian Greene points out, there is a problem: As they are currently formulated, general relativity and quantum mechanics cannot both be right. The two theories underlying the tremendous progress of physics during the last hundred years – progress that has explained

the expansion of the heavens and the fundamental structure of matter – are mutually in- compatible. [Emphasis added] (Greene, 1999, p. 3).

It doesn’t take, well, a nuclear physicist to sense a

“wrongness” here. You can’t very well have a “Theory of Everything” if the theory that describes all the big stuff is incompatible with the theory that describes all the little stuff. String theory is the patch on that incompatibility, and owes much of its existence to the work that has been done to resolve the mathematical incompatibilities among the formulas that define the very big and the very little.

Apparently, the math that seeks to explain both the very big and the very little becomes very bizarre. As Greene puts it:

Calculations that merge the equations of general relativity and those of quantum mechanic typically yield one and the same ridiculous

answer: infinity. Like a sharp rap on the

wrist from an old-time schoolteacher, an infinite answer is nature’s way of telling us that we are doing something that is quite wrong.

The equations of general relativity cannot

handle the roiling frenzy of the quantum foam

(p. 129).

Or to put it another way, as things get very, very tiny, things get very, very strange. One of the profound insights of string theory is that if we continue to function on the assumption that everything is made up of something smaller you never get to the smallest thing. It’s like that old riddle: If Sally, the kangaroo, is standing ten feet away from a wall and begins to hop toward the wall, and each jump covers half the remaining distance to the wall, how many jumps will it take for Sally to reach the wall? The answer, of course, is that Sally –

mathematically — will never reach the wall because there will always be the “half of the distant not covered”

remaining between Sally and the wall.

However, in the actual world of kangaroos and walls Sally will bump up against the wall after only a few bounces. String theory similarly asserts that the mathematical anomalies that arise from the spiraling theoretical reduction of “the smallest particle” are bogus – you can’t keep dividing the space between the wall and the kangaroo in two. Pretty soon the kangaroo is going to hit the wall. Similarly, string theory asserts that – and this is the first note in our minimalist composition: There is a limit to the infinitesimal, there is a

“smallest particle” that cannot be broken down into any smaller components and that particle is a vibrating string.

OK, so the smallest component of everything, is a tiny vibrating string. And whenever I assert that someone always says “Yeah, I get it. But what are the strings made out of?” It’s amazing how we have come to believe that there is always a smaller component part – but there isn’t when we are talking about strings. Greene again, “. . strings are truly fundamental – they are

‘atoms,’ uncuttable constituents, in the truest sense of the ancient Greeks. As the absolute smallest constituents of anything and everything, they represent the end of the line – the last of the Russian matrioshka dolls – in the numerous layers of the substructure in the microscopic world.” (p. 141). That’s it – no more, finito, nothin’

smaller, tiniest of the tiny, stops here. OK. So what does that mean? Well, a couple of really fascinating things:

First, the assertion that everything is made of tiny vi- brating strings means that the universe is made of music. We may need a couple of exclamation points there, if only because I love the idea so much. Now, I don’t mean to imply that we can hear those strings vibrating. They are, after all — all together now – “the tiniest things in the universe!” But where I come from, vibrating strings make music. In Greene’s book the 6th chapter is called

“Nothing But Music: something, something.” You have to realize that when academicians create titles we put what we really think on the left side of the colon, and then on the right side we put the stodgy part that would go in a convention program or an academic journal. The

“something something” on the right side of the colon for Chapter 6 is actually “: The Essentials of Superstring Theory” – which is not nearly as wonderful as “Nothing But Music.” I choose to read this chapter title as supporting the idea that, on a very real level, the universe is nothing but music.

The second fundamental principle is that the “note” de- termines the nature of the thing.

“According to string theory, the properties of an elementary ‘particle’ – its mass and its various force charges – are determined by the precise resonant pattern that its internal string executes.” (Greene pp. 143 4). So the vibration of a string – its “note” as it were —

determines the nature of an elementary particle, and the way in which that particle interacts with other particles

[notes] forms a unit that has unique physical – and musical – characteristics. Hence, all of the characteristics of the thing, from molecule to mountain, that is eventually constructed out of these strings — size, shape, color, brick, person, aardvark, stop-sign, flower — ALL the characteristics, are determined by the rate of vibration of the strings. A star, a mouse, a baby, a stone, are all made up of vibrating strings – the differences among those things result from their strings vibrating at differ- ent rates creating different notes aligned on different scores.

So when all these billions and billions of vibrating strings come together in just the right way the result is something we can recognize: a brick, a flower, your sister, or a 1968 VW Microbus. Right? Right. Almost all the time. Until we consider the possible deception of phase transition. Essentially, phase transition describes a situation in which one thing dresses up to look like different things. Phase transition doesn’t try to be deceptive, it just is. Remember the old story of the gingerbread man? In the end the fox, who promised to carry the gingerbread man across the river on his head, gobbles him up instead with the apology, “I’m sorry, it’s just who I am!” Phase transition is a lot like that. Imagine for a minute that there is a world where the temperature never drops below freezing. So the

inhabitants of that world always experience H2O as water. And water is the center of their culture, their science, art and religion. Now imagine another world in which the temperature never goes above freezing. The inhabitants of that world would always experience H2O

as ice. And, right, ice is the center of their culture, their science, art and religion. Now let’s toss the inhabitants of those worlds into a Star Trek episode in which their two planets must cooperate or both be overwhelmed by the evil Zamboni Empire.

A representative of each planet is brought aboard the Starship Enterprise for a conference, and each has been instructed to bring a gift for the other representative –

something very precious from their planet. They sit in their climate controlled booths at the beginning of the conference. The resident of Freezing Planet presents her gift – an exquisite, crystalline block of ice. The resident of Never Freezing Planet reciprocates with his treasure

– a translucent carved vessel filled with the purest water. The gifts are taken into the booths, set before the representatives, who nod and smile the obligatory smiles. The conference begins, but old suspicions still prevent much meaningful dialogue – until the block of ice begins to melt and the vessel of water begins to freeze:

Freezing Planet Rep:

It is Ice!

Never Freezing Planet Rep:

It is Water!

Together:

My friend! Let us plan our

future!

Spock [whispering to Captain Kirk]:

Shall

we tell them about the planet where the temperature never drops below 100 degrees Celsius? Kirk:

Shut up, Spock.

You get the idea: while the vibrations of the strings determine that each gift is comprised of H2O, the variable of temperature causes H2O to move through different phases, each of which may appear radically different from the other despite their underlying sameness. Ice looks different from water, but is essentially the same thing. Water looks different from ice, but is essentially the same thing. Kirk decides to leave the idea of steam, which looks different than both water and ice, but is essentially the same thing, for a future conference.

“Phase transition” is how we define a situation in which one entity moves through a variety of different phases each of which appears very different from the oth- ers, hence masking the commonality from the casual observer.

And sometimes those commonalities are masked from the not-so-casual observer as well. In biology, for example, we see a lot of amazing phase transitions. What if you hadn’t been taught that caterpillars become butterflies? That tadpoles become frogs? How long do you think it took for careful observation to reveal that level of phase transition? It is probably no accident that indigenous Americans, who spent so much time observing the natural world, peopled their metaphysical universe with “shape-shifters” who were able to cloak their essentially unchanging nature in a variety of shapes and guises.

The next note in our minimalist composition is sounded by “duality,” the gumshoes who try to track down the wily shape-shifters, the phase transitionists. Greene says that “Physicists use the term duality to describe theoretical models that appear to be different but nevertheless can be shown to describe exactly the same physics” (p. 298). He goes on to discuss that dualities can be seen as trivial or non-trivial. A trivial duality would be say, directions to a hotel written in a language you did not understand. Upon receiving the translation, you are now able to understand the directions, but that understanding doesn’t change the location of the hotel. Trivial dualities “are actually identical and appear to be different only because of the way in which they happen to be presented… Nontrivial examples of duality are those in which distinct descriptions of the same physical situation do yield different and complimentary physical insights and mathematical methods of analysis” (p. 298). Let’s stay with the directions to the hotel example and see if we can’t tease a “non-physics”, trivial/non-trivial duality distinction out of it. OK, we have this map that is written in a language we do not understand at all, and a set of accompanying directions. We need a translation to be able to figure out how to get to where we are going. Our first translation comes from a fellow tourist who has two vital bits of information that we are lacking: a rudimentary knowledge of the language in which the map and the directions and a good physical knowledge of the city. With this knowledge he is able to create these instructions for us: Stay on this street, and walk four blocks

north.

You will come to a park.

Walk

straight through the park’s main entrance.

When you come to the fountain in the middle,

take the path that turns right. This will lead you to a gate and a tiny winding set of stairs. Go up the stairs. They will lead you up to another street. Turn left on that street. Cross one intersection. The address of the building

you are looking for is 237, a big green building with fancy wrought-iron doors.

With this translation the duality is trivial. The underlying reality of the situation is unchanged. We get from point A to point B. We have lunch. No big deal. However, our second translation comes from a woman who is fluent in both our language and the local language; and in addition has studied the history of the city. Her translation reads like this.

Continue to walk north along this street,

which was named Ascension Boulevard by the

Jesuits who opened that school just across the street in the 1650s. In four blocks you will

come to the Park of the Martyred Patriots, it

is named in honor of three men and two women who were killed by the King’s soldiers in 1676. Local custom says that they are buried

in a crypt below the Fountain of Reflection

that lies in the middle of the Park. But last

year when they had to do some work on the

pipes below the fountain they didn’t find any

evidence of a crypt.

Anyhow, go into the main gate of the park

and follow the path straight ahead to the

fountain. When you get to the fountain turn

right. That path will take you to a gate and a tiny winding set of stairs. The gate is called the Gate of Separation and the path is called

the Walk of a Thousand Tears. Both names

date to the slave trade. The Gate of Separation is where the slavers would separate the families and then the various groups of slaves were led up the walk to the Slave Market that

was located on the street above. As you wind

your way up the stairs you will notice a little bench in each turn of the path. The plaque on

the back of each bench gives the name of a

prominent family in the city who smuggled

slaves to freedom.

When you come to the top of the path you will

be on Liberty Avenue – the road the patriot

forces took on the night they fought the first battle of the revolution. Turn left on Liberty and walk to the next intersection at Constitution Avenue. The building you are looking for is diagonally across the intersection — 237

Constitution Avenue. It is a large building

faced with green marble that has large ornate

wrought-iron doors. It is called Freedom Hall

because it is where the constitution was drafted after the revolution. In this translation the duality is nontrivial because it yields different and complimentary insights and methods of analysis. This translation carries all the information necessary to get us from point A to Point B, but it carries much more as well. It allows us to see underlying similarities between this culture and our own. They had to over come the rule of a King to establish their country, they must grapple with a history of slavery, they have a constitution, and liberty is an important social/political construct for them. Out of this description similarities, which were hidden in the earlier trivial duality, are revealed.

So duality adds the following notes to our minimalist song of string theory:

Trivial dualities are descriptions of entities that fail to reveal possible relationships hid- den by phase transitions. A trivial duality of description of ice, water and steam would stress

their

physical

appearance

and

characteristics.

Nontrivial dualities, on the other hand, are descriptions of those seemingly discrete phases that reveal the underlying intimate connec- tions. A nontrivial description of ice, water and steam would reveal that all three seem- ingly discrete entities were actually H2O in different phases.

It is understanding the difference between trivial and non-trivial dualities that leads to the assertion that began this 1st Movement:

We are often taught to place things into quite discrete

categories based upon their differences. Perhaps it is time to consider broader categories as we

learn more

about what makes all things similar.

Symmetry is the last major concept of string theory that we are going to consider, but it is vital to the idea of drawing string theory into an exploration of life experiences similar to those that you went back and read about in the Prelude. Here is the note:

Symmetry asserts that the laws that describe the struc- ture and the function of the universe do not depend on when or where you use them.

Greene says, “… nature treats every moment in time and every location in space identically – symmetrically –

by ensuring that the same fundamental laws are in operation” (p. 169). The importance of symmetry can be seen most clearly when you think about what would happen if symmetry didn’t apply – if the laws of nature shifted with time or place.

Let’s consider gravity for a minute. If gravity was random in terms of place, “up” and “down” could shift from room to room in your house. I mean, think about it,

“down” is the place toward which gravity pulls us, right? We can close our eyes and still know which way is down by “dropping” our hand. The direction in which it falls is down. Simple, consistent and dependable — as long as the principle of symmetry applies. However, if gravity could shift from place to place things could get really strange. Let’s say that gravity in the kitchen pulls things toward the floor, but in the dining room it shifts, and pulls things toward the left wall, over there where you hung Aunt Grace’s painting of the lighthouse. What we have here is a disaster waiting to happen. It’s Thanksgiving dinner and you step out of the kitchen carrying a serving bowl into the dining room and suddenly –

Whap! – mashed potatoes all over the lighthouse. Similar slapstick scenes would become normal if gravity could shift with time. You go to bed one night with gravity comfortably pulling you toward the floor and into your mattress. But during the night gravity decides to shift and pull toward the ceiling instead, and you wake to discover that the terrible dream you had about being crushed by your bed is true! If symmetry did not apply, if the laws of nature shifted with place and time the universe would become a chaotic, very dangerous, funhouse. Physicists are particularly grateful for the existence of symmetry in the universe since, without it, their work would becomes exercises in insanity. What good is it to decipher the speed of light, if it can change at the next moment? Or in the next county? How do you plot the trajectory of a moon launch if you have no way of knowing if the parameters that allow you to calculate the effect of gravity are different on the moon, or if they will be different next month when the launch is scheduled to take place.

Symmetry, by asserting the consistency of the basic laws of nature, is the sanity of the universe. It does not necessarily reveal all the workings of those laws, but it assures us that once we nail them down, they will not morph willy-nilly into bizarre parodies of themselves.

It would follow then that relationships

between notes and chords, between harmony and discord will not shift simply because the note sounds in a different place or from a smaller string. And following from that the intriguing implication that what we know and sense about music may provide us with real pragmatic knowledge and insight regarding both the nature of the universe and the landscape of the heart.

Those, then, are the major notes in our minimalist rendition of string theory. To pare it down to those few notes is like playing the first four notes of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony on a penny whistle. On the one hand it seems foolish to have those few notes represent a work of such scope and majesty; but on the other hand, those few clear, demanding, notes manage to foretell the power of the symphony to which they are prelude. Similarly our few notes sound the elegance and power of string theory which describes with amazing accuracy the working of all things physical — from the smallest elemental particles to the movements of galaxies and the universe itself.

But now is the moment in which we must leave the relative comfort of the stars and planets, neutrinos and nebulae and hurl ourselves into the intimidating maw of the human race – this is where we move from string theory to chord theory. Let us start by playing the notes we have already isolated on a different instrument, the human instrument playing in the landscape of the heart. The smallest particle in the universe is a vibrating string that cannot be broken down into any smaller components.

The central aspect of this note is that it affirms an essential unity in the universe. Yes, pebble is different from pine tree, and puppy is different from pudding, and person is different from planet, but on the most fundamental level all those things are strikingly similar in that they are each a collection of tiny vibrating strings. That is an engaging thought, and tempts one into flights of fancy like those that often accompany the discovery that most matter is made up of empty space –

that the actual matter in atoms or molecules is a tiny fragment of the structure. You may have participated in those discussions yourself around a table in your high school cafeteria or in the lounge of your college dorm: Speaker one: “Like, you know, dude, most of

this table is, like, air. And, like, in theory, because my hand is also, like, air – I could put my hand right through this table!”

Speaker two: “I am all about that, dude,

totally.”

Soon you discovered, as had all generations of seekers before you, that you really couldn’t put your hand through the table. Still the initial amazement that came with your new understanding of the nature of matter was heady stuff. String theory asks us to assume an even stranger notion.

It asks us to accept that

everything [Remember, string theory is supposed to be the theory of everything] is composed on its most fundamental level of tiny vibrating strings. This, in turn, demands that we accept the notion that we, too, like pebble and puppy and pudding, are collections of billions of vibrating strings. The assertion that everything is made of tiny vibrating strings means that the universe is made of music. The foundation of this book rests upon the assertion that this is not a metaphor. The universe is not like music, the universe is not similar to music, the universe does not resemble music – the universe is music. Furthermore, there is a spiral of composition in the universe. The smallest element is the vibrating string – a single note. Strings come together to form larger harmonic constructions – chords, chords into melodies, melodies into themes, themes into symphonies, etc. I do not know enough about the language of music to assert whether it currently can describe the complexity of the universe; but if it cannot, that is a linguistic failing, not a conceptual flaw. Musicians, after all, assumed they were describing music – not the universe. An additional implication of this assertion is that the knowledge we have about how music works may well be of equal valuable to the knowledge physics has proved regarding the physical nature of the universe; because they are describ- ing the same thing. If a nontrivial duality is a description of two phases of an entity that reveals their underlying unity, then string theory’s revelation that the universe is “Nothing But Music” must be one of humanity’s least trivial dualities.

The “note” determines the nature of matter. Nowhere is this nontrivial duality more apparent than in string theory’s assertion that “the properties of an elementary ‘particle’ – its mass and its various force charges – are determined by the precise resonant pattern that its internal string executes.” (Greene pp. 143 4): that the note determines the nature of matter. Just as we could never manage to put our hand through that table in the cafeteria – at least not without doing significant damage to our hand, or the table, or both – we have come to accept that, despite the comfort that comes with the notion of the unity of all things, there are some profound differences among a pebble and a puppy and pudding and us. String theory tells us that those differences arise from the fact that we are playing different notes than pebble and puppy and pudding. Well, actually someone versed in string theory would explain that the strings that make up the elemental particles that make up the molecules that eventually come together in some recognizable entity – pudding, puppy, pebble or pal

– are vibrating at different rates. It is that difference in rate of vibration that causes the variations in the resulting entities. Fine. As we gently move string theory into chord theory let us mold the language as well. When you change the rate of vibration of a string you change its pitch – you make it play a different note. So the differences between puppy, pudding, pebble and pal stem from the fact that they play different notes that come together in varying chords.

“Phase transition” is how we define a situation in which one entity moves through a variety of different phases each of which appears very different from the oth- ers, hence masking the commonality from the casual observer.

We have talked about water, ice and steam as the various phases of H2O. But as we move from string theory into chord theory it is necessary to consider other types of phase transitions, and how those phases affect the chord of the entity in each phase. Think about the butterfly and the frog. For many of us, one of these two creatures provided our first powerful introduction to the notion of phase transition. Somewhere – in kindergarten, or in scouts, or in our own kitchen, out in the shed, on the back porch; someone – parent, grandparent, teacher, friend, older sibling; introduced us to a caterpillar or a tadpole and spoke the magic words, “Wait, watch.”

Once we realized nothing was going to happen right that very moment, we took on the role of scientist, naturalist, biologist and began to observe the critters. Over the next few days or weeks we observed the magic of metamorphosis. Caterpillar became chrysalis became butterfly; tadpole became frog. Talk about your phase transition! And yet our mentors told us that somehow the caterpillar and the chrysalis and the butterfly were all the same “thing.”

Chord theory takes exception to that assertion. The caterpillar is a collection of unique cells, and those cells are what they are because of the vibrational patterns of the strings that make up those cells – the notes of the caterpillar’s chord determine what it is. When the caterpillar morphs into a chrysalis it becomes a new unique collection of cells which have different vibrational patterns than the cells of the caterpillar – the chrysalis has a different chord than the caterpillar. The butterfly that emerges from the chrysalis is, likewise, a unique collection of different cells that sounds its unique chord in the universe. Chord theory would assert that the caterpillar and the chrysalis and the butterfly were/are different chords in the same melody, but that each, in its own moment — is unique. Trivial dualities are descriptions of entities that fail to reveal possible relationship hidden by phase transitions. A trivial duality descrip- tion of ice, water and steam would stress their physical appearance and characteristics. Similarly a trivial duality description of the caterpillar and the chrysalis and the butterfly would describe three different entities none of which bore the slightest resemblance to one another. Nontrivial dualities, on the other hand, are descriptions of those seemingly discrete phases that reveal the underlying intimate connec- tions. A nontrivial description of ice, water and steam would reveal that all three

seemingly discrete entities were actually H2O in different phases.

In chord theory the nontrivial duality is the description that discerns the melody of which the chords are a part. Our mentors were not lying – the caterpillar and the chrysalis and the butterfly are all the same thing. The question is what is it that defines that sameness that cuts across the seeming “different-ness” of those three phases? The answer is the description – perhaps at the genetic level — that reveals the sameness across those three

phases

of

the

caterpillar-chrysalis-butterfly

creature. The description that reveals what melody unites the three chords becomes the nontrivial duality. I do not know whether a poet or a biologist is better suited to the task. No doubt a poetic biologist or a scientifically versed poet would have the advantage.

But even a suitable non-trivial description of the butterfly riddle seems a slight victory when we consider the task of describing human beings. Despite our more mundane exteriors, human beings are infinitely more complex than butterflies. I am staggered by our own metamorphosis. I am a “lap parent” at our local hospital, which means for a couple of hours every week I go rock premature babies in the neonatal intensive care nurseries. They are tiny, precious, little tadpoles who grow and get stronger and finally lose the trailing electronic tails that tie them to the quietly blinking monitors. My own daughters introduced me to the shifting phases of childhood and adolescence, and now as one enters high school and the other looks ahead to her graduation from college, new phases reveal themselves. The dissolution of my marriage of three decades defines the unexpected lurches and shifts of our life’s phases. Observing the grace and gentleness of my 89 year-old father sounds a calming, reassuring, chord. The multiphased human chord moves through a far more intricate melody than the butterfly; and, in interactions with other people, plants, animals, organizations and institutions can create symphonies of exquisite beauty.

In those symphonies we – as individuals — are chord, instrument, artist and composer. The rest of this book examines how string theory and chord theory can assist us in understanding those various roles. And in that examination we will also consider a variety of questions: What chord was I born with? Can I tune that chord, or am I stuck with it? How do I find the melody of my life? How do I make my melody part of a greater symphony? Can I “hear” other people’s chords? How about those of pebbles and poodles? Why does there seem so much discord and so little harmony in the world? Can I tune my life in a way that increases harmony and reduces discord? What was it that knit summer and baling and tractors and birdsong and kinfolk into a single harmonic moment in that field so many years ago?

But before we can even consider the answers to those questions we need to think some more about this idea of the human being – of us, of you, of me — as a chord, as an instrument, as music.

3

Chapter

The Conjectural Sym-

phony Movement #2 The

Human Instrument

You need neither a telescope nor a microscope

to observe the

mysteries of the universe. A mirror will do

quite nicely.

There are people and places, moments and spaces, with whom and in which we feel completely content. They can be terribly mundane, or laced with high drama

– but somehow we sense their “rightness.” I remember one such mundane yet perfect moment. The morning flurry of activity had swirled out the door, and I was alone in the house with an entire hour stretching before me until I had to leave to go teach. I had retrieved the paper from the driveway, made my way back into the living room where the warm sunlight of an early summer day had begun to wash the pale white walls. I took a sip of coffee and stretched out on the couch, as the “Morning Concert” sent a bit of Debussy floating through the room. Elmo, who is a miniature poodle of infinite good sense, sprang up and filled the crevasse between of the back of the couch and my chest with eight and a half pounds of warm comfort. I skipped the news and went straight to the funnies. Elmo gave me a little lick on the back of my hand. I was suddenly aware that I was in the middle of a unique moment. Everything fit, everything was in harmony. The day, the week, life itself, was certainly up for grabs – but that particular point in time was perfect.

What makes some moments perfect and others the pits? Stretching string theory into chord theory leads me to assert that it is all a matter of the extent to which we – as a human instrument, as a human chord – are in literal harmony with our surroundings. In my office a modest table-top fountain constructed of ceramic pots and seashells burbles between two pieces of sculpture. The lighting is indirect, the music muted but constant. A couch and hand-painted coffee table have replaced the conference cluster.

More than one student has remarked, “This place has good Feng Shui!” Probably so. From what little I know of it, I seems to me highly probable that Feng Shui and chord theory have a lot in common – theory of everything, remember? The objective of the ancient oriental discipline is to maximize the energy flow and harmony of our living spaces. String theory asserts that the universe is made of tiny vibrating strings, chord theory asserts that strings come together into chords that interact with other chords in greater and lesser degrees of harmony. Feng Shui seeks to construct harmonic environments. On that level the similarities seem obvious. But chord theory goes beyond that – as I suspect Feng Shui does as well.

You can create rooms, houses, and much larger spaces that feel exactly alike. I have a favorite cartoon taped to my office door. It shows a picture of a man and woman wearing Mickey Mouse ears, waving and obviously smiling into the camera. The caption reads, “This is us in the food court at Disneyland, … or Disney World, … or EuroDisney, … I’m not sure.” Disney manufactures its own Feng Shui, a replicable physical resonance that reinforces the feelings, attitudes and behaviors that have come to define “The Magic Kingdom.” But my office is uniquely mine. It is far too cluttered for some of my colleagues who have “a place for everything and everything in its place.” It is far too informal for folks who need precisely defined demarcations of role and power. But I find that it tends to be comfortable space for people with whom I am comfortable. As a personalized, organic extension of my individual human chord, it is harmonic to me, and therefore harmonic for those people with whom I resonate.

Greene says, “Every particle of matter and every transmitter of force consists of a string whose pattern of vibration is its ‘fingerprint.’ … every physical event, process or occurrence in the universe is, at its most elemental level, describable in terms of forces acting between these elemental material constituents” (p. 146). So all the particles that make up your body, all the processes from the beating of your heart to the firing of the neurons in your brain and body, to the rate at which you metabolize a veggie platter or a Big Mac – all manifest distinct vibrational patterns, notes, that come together in an awesome cacophony that is your chord, unique in all the universe.

Even more interesting and important is the fact that the unique chord that is you or me is actually a complex three-part construction that begins in biology, is molded by environment, and finds its final form in personal choice and free will. Three clusters of notes create this chord that is ours alone.

Biological Beginnings: The Signature Notes You are watching your favorite police/detective drama on TV. It’s the “rogue cop” episode. Two cops had been sitting in an all night diner taking a break from a late night patrol. The door behind one cop opens silently. The other cop looks up, and then pointedly looks away. A

silencer

hiccups

twice,

and

a

dapper

looking

gentleman, seated at the counter, slumps to the floor, quite dead. As the episode unfolds it turns out that the rogue cop who let the execution take place is being paid off by the mob. The good cop is about to break up the mob’s drug ring, which will reveal the rogue’s ties to the underworld. The execution in the diner was set up in part to frame the good cop. The crime scene investigators arrived quickly, to find both cops standing by the front door. They had each been having black coffee and the huckleberry-blueberry pie. Their plates and cups were still on the table. It soon becomes clear that only the person facing the door could have prevented the murder, so obviously whoever sat there — and let the murder occur — was part of the plot. Both the rogue cop and the mob-connected diner manager swear it was the good cop who had been facing the door. The good cop claims the opposite. How could the crime scene investigators prove who had been sitting where?

Exactly – the DNA. They simply took the coffee cups and the forks, isolated the DNA from saliva traces on each and tested it against the officers – proving beyond a shadow of a doubt that the rogue cop had been facing the door. “If the spit fits you know where he sits!” We sigh in relief as justice is done, and head out to the kitchen to leave our own DNA all over some microwave popcorn. The scientific reality that DNA is unique to the individual has entered our popular culture. But let us think about DNA from a string/chord theory perspective. We are made up of billions and billions of cells. Within each of those billions and billions of cells is our DNA – countless copies in each cell, utterly unique to us, an undeniable signature of our family tree, it is our exclusive expression of the human genome. Each of those DNA strands within those billions of cells is playing our song

– ours alone. No other person, pebble or poodle in the universe assembles strings in quite the same way. We are, physically, a totally distinctive composition, and that physicality predetermines the first set of notes that make up our chord. We cannot change the notes we were born with, they will always sound in every cell in our body. But they are not the only notes in our chord.

The Environmental Notes

The second cluster of notes in our chord is also an accident of birth. But these notes are not biological, they are environmental. Ansel Adams, the extraordinary concert pianist turned quintessential photographer of nature, once mused “I often wonder how different I would have been had I been born in Des Moines or Detroit instead of here, along the Pacific coast south of San Francisco.”

Beyond his DNA, Adams was born into a physical, emotional and cultural environment that added more notes to his personal chord. He was born in 1902 into a financially secure family with both the means and the inclination to encourage his artistic inclinations. They allowed him to leave school during the entire year of 1915, to browse instead among the wonders of The Panama Pacific International Exposition, the world’s fair held in San Francisco. Subsequently they supported, emotionally and financially; first, his work with the piano and later his photographic career. And, of course, whenever he stepped out the door, there was the Pacific Ocean, beating against the rocky California coast. Frank McCourt on the other hand was dealt a different hand. In the autobiographical Angela’s Ashes, he chronicles an upbringing that could not be more different from Ansel Adams’. Raised in the slums of Dublin, McCourt

rubbed

shoulders

with

squalor,

poverty,

deprivation and an alcoholic, abusive, father with a love of language and the “gift of gab”. Like many of his generation and situation, McCourt fled Ireland and the misery of his childhood at the first opportunity, finding opportunity and artistic success on the fabled shores of America.

These two men define the yin and yang of the range of composition possible in the environmental notes of our personal chord. One embraces the harmony of an idyllic youth and the other flees a discordant childhood of despair. It is important to realize that neither the embrace nor the flight resulted from an objective assessment of life on some predetermined scale that runs from harmony to discord. The Pacific Coast is not inherently harmonic. If we were to stand Adams’ life on its head, he could have come to see his environment as discordant. If his parents had been abusive drunks who had tied him to tree trunks during drinking binges on the beach, and then beat him if he complained about the rising tide; I doubt that his later art, if indeed he still became an artist, would feature the same exquisite visions of that rocky coastline. Nature could have become a source of discord to him. It was the idyllic physical environment and the supportive and loving family environment that coalesced to create the environmental notes of Ansel’s chord.

Similarly, while deprivation often pulls in the same yoke with discord, it doesn’t have to be that way. I have heard many stories told by members of my father’s generation that sound a common theme: We were dirt poor, but never really knew it. The stories often reflect a family that found joy in providing food, shelter, and entertainment for themselves in a harsh environment. McCourt, however, was thrust into a childhood of deprivation that was coupled with anger, despair and abuse, relieved only occasionally by the brighter notes of language and literature that hinted at the harmony he would seek in his adult life.

How does this environmental piece of the puzzle, this wrapping together of physicality and attitude impact our chord? Chord theory would assert that it attunes us to what “feels” right or wrong, it lays down deep inclinations regarding what we should seek and what we should avoid. Adams chose to embrace much of the environment into which he was born; art, nature and beauty. McCourt chose to reject the dominant darkness of his childhood environment and seek harmony and light elsewhere.

Chord theory asserts that both the harmony and the discord of the environments in which these two men were raised are manifested in the resonance of their strings, in the construction of their unique chords. Remember, Greene tells us that “every physical event, process or occurrence in the universe is, at its most elemental level, describable in terms of forces acting between these elemental material constituents,” between the vibrations of strings, between notes in the chord. There are physiological components to everything including those seemingly ephemeral elements of our life — attitudes and perceptions — that have been heavily influenced by our environment. Consider the sound of a cow bellowing for her calf. This is, objectively speaking, a loud, strident, jarring vocalization. Now put that sound into the ears of two people raised in radically different environments. One set of ears belongs to a man who was raised in a modest city of say 80 to 100 thousand. Folks sat out on porches in the evening, grass and trees still outweighed cars and concrete. And most every summer the boy would travel off to the family farm where the bellowing of cattle in the evening, and often at night, became part of the melody of delightful summers. The other set of ears belong to a woman raised in New York. She grew up enchanted with the music of the streets, the honking of the cabs, the growl of garbage trucks, the colorful, high volume, debates of drivers, vendors and pedestrians. Summers were spent scampering through fountains, open fire hydrants, buying ice cream from pushcart people, and catching cool breezes on the roof of the building while the city throbbed below.

Into these two sets of ears, alone and in the dark, comes the distinctive bellow of a cow calling to her calf. The man hears the sound and the sweet smell of summer flashes to mind, the calm of childhood slows his pulse and breathing, a smile touches his lips as childhood memories unfurl behind his eyelids. The woman hears the alien, unfamiliar, starling sound and adrenaline pours into her system. Her body freezes as flight and fight compete for dominance. Heart rate and breathing skyrocket, as her wide eyes seek vainly to penetrate the darkness around her. Two unique chords transpose to significantly different states as a result of exposure to the same sounds primarily because the people who are those chords lived or grew up in different environments. Why do I say “primarily because”? Seems to quibble a bit, doesn’t it? There is a good reason for that, it is because I am quibbling. And I am quibbling because there is a biological component to the way in which we express the effect of our environment. And it has to do with RNA, not DNA. Our RNA is a sort mirror image of our DNA, and so like our DNA, is unique to us. There is also a whole bunch of it, each of our cells produces 10 million copies of every ribosomal RNA, and each of those strands is at least 13,000 nucleotides long. [Science News, Jan., 12, 2002, Vol. 161, No. 2] Now, let me be right up front with you. My understanding of RNA is a bit fuzzy, and I don’t know if ribosomal RNA is different from regular old RNA, and I couldn’t tell you the difference between a nucleotide and a high tide or Tide laundry detergent. That really isn’t important for our discussion. What is important is that inside every single cell in our bodies are 10 million copies of something, and each of those 10 million things has a strand of 13,000 other things in it, and at the fundamental level of those 10 million times 13,000 things crammed into every cell in my body are tiny vibrating pieces of music – and it is all utterly unique to me in response to my environment. A friend of mine explained it this way:

Your RNA is the stuff that does all the work

in cells. RNA is the machinery that makes

proteins and is the directions for when and

what to make in any cell. Those functions are

very specific to cell types, to developmental

state and environmental signals. Yes, they

are very specific to the individual but they are also very dynamic so they come and go associated with many influences. The DNA is the stable copy from which all the cellular comings and goings get directions. So the DNA doesn't change (very much) with time or environmental conditions or disease but RNA reflects all those influences on us. [Barbara

Burkhart,

National

Institute

of

Environmental and Health Sciences, personal

correspondence 1/23/02.]

I read that to mean that once our environmental chord has determined the nature of our reaction to the

‘environmental signal’ [the bellowing cow], as either calm and comfortable or strange and frightening; it is our RNA – which is also unique to us as individuals –

that determines the way in which our body will express the reaction. Is our “calm reaction” all inside? Slowed breathing, dropping blood pressure? Or is it external? A stretch? A chuckle? A smile? Is our fear reaction to freeze? Fight? Flee? Apparently our environment and our biology team up to influence the nature of these expressions of our unique chord. Just as environment itself has a physical and an emotional/attitudinal component, the construction of our environmental chord has both a bass and a treble clef; the environment itself, and the

RNA-influenced

physical

response

to

that

environment.

It is wise, on a variety of levels, to realize that we always exist in a physical and social environment. Too often, particularly when consider its impact upon our lives, we think of environmental influences in the past tense.

“When I was growing up we were taught … ” “My folks always said … ” and the favorite of stand-up comics evrywhere, “When I was a kid were we sooooo poor … ” But the reality is that we continue to live in a social and physical environment everyday, and its influence on us –

on our chord — is no less today than it was “way back when.” However, there is a profound difference. As adults we have considerably more say about the environment in which we chose to live. Certainly we are constrained by politics and economics, but even the extent to which we allow ourselves to be bound by those constraints is a matter of our choice. And it is the notion of choice that informs the third, and most important component of our chord.

The Notes of the Unconquerable Soul Out of the night that covers me,

Black as a pit from pole to pole,

I thank whatever gods may be,

For my unconquerable soul.

To R. T. H. B.

William Ernest Henley

Having written those four lines, a person could die happily – and fearlessly. They are a glorious affirmation of the ability of the human soul to pour sunshine into the darkest corners of existence. They also define that third, vital, aspect of our unique chord – our role as the ultimate composer. Biology and environment may draw the staff, may influence the key, may even advocate for certain sharps and flats, but ultimately we create the chord. The examples of the power of personal composition surround us in all fields of endeavor. Stephen Hawkins, a physicist trapped in disease-ridden body amazes us with the elegance of his thought; Loretta Lynn, a coal miner’s daughter, enchants us with her earthy lyricism; Itzak Perlman, a violinist belayed by braces, overwhelms us with his virtuosity; Barbara Jordan, a member of Congress oft confronted by racism and sexism, enlightens us with her wisdom and oratory. These are the famous and the accomplished, but it is neither their fame nor their accomplishments that argue for their presence in this work – they are on these pages because they exemplify our role as the final arbiter in the nature of our individual chord. Any of them could have looked at the notes provided by biology or environment, and crept back into “the night that covered them.” They chose instead to compose the chord of their unconquerable souls – and the world became a more melodic place.

We tune our chords. Chord theory is not deterministic. I know, I know, all that stuff about DNA and RNA creating the actual physical template that sounds billions of notes throughout every cell in our body sounds pretty deterministic. And then there is the environmental chord constructed out of the accident of where our parents chose, or had, to live. Poverty or luxury or somewhere in between; the tropics or frozen tundra or somewhere in between; democracy or totalitarianism or somewhere in between – the environmental chord, too, seems destined to determine the ultimate nature of our chord. But no, determine is the wrong word. Influence, impact, incline; yes, surely. But determine pushes us –

incorrectly – over a vital line. Consider the seven brothers and two sisters. They were born in the midst of America – North America. Imagine Pecos Bill striding purposefully north from the Gulf of Mexico as Paul Bunyun was heading south from the North shore of central Canada. Meanwhile, Pochohontas was heading inland from the mouth of the Saint Lawrence, and Sweet Betsy from Pike waded out of Puget Sound and headed east. Assuming, as they rarely let us in math class, that our heroes and heroines were all moving at the same speed, the four would run into each other not far from where the seven brothers and two sisters were born – a snug farmhouse on the prairie, in the heartland.

The gene pool was deep in this particular clan. Outsiders were always mistaking brother A for brothers B, C, or maybe D; and the sisters too shared a strong family resemblance. The biological chord rang clear.

Environmentally they neither lolled in the privileged world of Ansel Adams nor struggled in the crushing poverty of Frank McCourt. They worked hard on a modestly successful farm. They played sports, made quilts, did chores, and read the Bible under the watchful eye of their minister father. In a deterministic world these nine apples, so closely linked by biology and sociology, wouldn’t fall very far from the tree. And it is true that four of the nine did construct lives that kept them close to the homestead. Interestingly, included in that foursome were the three oldest children, the two daughters and the first born son, all born within a decade of 1900. The younger apples showed an amazing tendency for rolling raucously into the new century.

Several did, like their father, become ordained ministers. But only one followed him into a career in the pulpit. And the pulpit the son chose was just outside Chicago, Sandburg’s “City of the Big Shoulders” in the midst of urban America – far from the rustic spire of the rural church where his father preached. Three others eventually received their PhDs, and pursued lives in the academy becoming department heads and deans and scholars of some renown. Another went into business, managing restaurants and even casinos. For all five of the apples who rolled beyond the borders of their home state, a love of an exciting novel, secular music, a gripping play, good wine and a cold beer on a hot summer afternoon became additions to the more somber chord they had inherited through the twin accidents of birth and environment.

We inherit inclination, we are born into opportunity or challenge, but the chords we eventually come to be are largely the result of the choices we make regarding what we choose to believe and how we choose to behave. Remember the nature of strings, “every physical event, process or occurrence in the universe is, at its most elemental level, describable in terms of forces acting between these elemental material constituents.” We are born reverberating blue eyes or brown; white or olive or black skin, our genes determine whether we will be five or six or seven feet tall. But we decide whether that body shall be fit or slack, bulky or svelte. Through diet and exercise and personal habit we tune the physicality of our body, and in doing so tune the chord our body plays. We also tune our emotional chord. Our environment inclines us to the attitudes and values of the culture into which we were born. We are, as children, taught what to like and dislike; what should make us happy or sad. And since those feeling and emotions trigger changes in physical states within our body it follows that we are taught to sound specific chords in response to specific individuals and situations. But again beliefs and attitudes are, in the final analysis, the result of choices. To the extent that we take personal control over, and responsibility for, our beliefs and attitudes we seize control over that part of our chord as well.

The human instrument is finely crafted and complex. Our biology determines how the parts of our instrument will fit together. Our environment determines the initial tuning of the instrument. But we are the final craftsman, we care for and refine the shape of the physical instrument. We are the final arbiter of the environment in which the instrument will reside, we chose the concert hall of our life. And finally, and most importantly, despite Mr. Manilow’s assertions to the contrary – we write the songs. By choosing what we desire to know, by selecting what we choose to believe, by determining how we shall behave, we create and tune the chord that is us. 4

Chapter

The Conjectural Sym-

phony Movement #3 –

Comprehending Chords

“There are none so blind as those who will not see.”

— Neil Simon, Butterflies are Free.

It is often difficult to see what is plainly visible, to hear what is clearly audible. Hence, the idea of our being profoundly influenced by chords we cannot hear sounded by strings we cannot see seems like something out of Alice in Wonderland. My first inclination was to believe that there was some perceptual mode particularly suited for the perception of strings and chords that we had disinherited or disenfranchised, or simply allowed to fall into disuse. “The appendix!” I thought one day after too much coffee. “We don’t really know what it is for and doctors are always chopping it out willy-nilly. Maybe we sense strings, maybe we comprehend chords through the appendix!” The brilliance of this insight was less apparent after the caffeine had worn off. Now several months into this odyssey, I am becoming convinced that the perception of strings, the comprehension of chords is holistic. It involves all the senses simultaneously, it is a multimodal phenomenon in which we sense the presence of strings and chords not in their particular vibrations, but in their broader expression as sound, color, texture, taste and so forth. Therefore sensing the chords in our lives isn’t a case of finding new senses, rather it is a case of refining the way in which we use those we already have.

I remember my high school choir director, a wonderfully talented individual whose own choices had somehow brought him to our school in central Ohio. Under his guiding hand we routinely claimed the highest possible ranking in state and regional vocal contests. Audiences would leave our concerts shaking their heads in amazement that high school kids could sound so good. Looking back, I realize that we were not exceptionally talented. Any high school of a thousand or two kids is going to contain enough good voices to make an excellent choir. It is the director who either can or cannot, first, hear that exquisite blend of sound and, second, coax it from young and largely untrained singers. We were blessed with a director who could do that.

I stayed in touch with him through annual holiday cards, and was surprised to hear several years later, when he was still in his late thirties or early forties that he was going to step down as choir director and concentrate on teaching psychology. Maybe that was what prompted the trip home to catch the holiday concert in person. It was wonderful. And afterward I joined the throng of well-wishers offering thanks and congratulations to singers and director. Once the crowd had cleared I lingered, talking about old times. It was in this secluded moment that he shared with me the fact that he was leaving the choir because he was losing his hearing. The principal came bounding up.

“Grover,” he boomed, “the kids sounded

great. I don’t see why you think you are losing your hearing.”

Grover shook his head before replying with a

wry smile, “The part of my hearing that I am

losing, you have never used.”

It was not an angry or an arrogant response. These two men were buddies, went fishing together. It was instead an acknowledgement that our perceptual world is far more complex than it seems. The director did not say, “the part of my hearing that I am losing you have never had.” Used, he said. “The part of my hearing that I am losing, you have never used.” The stimulus was there for everyone to perceive – but for a variety of reasons we don’t all participate in the same experience. Grover’s perception resonates with a bit of advice my sculpting mentor gave me. He said, “It’s all about looking.” For him sculpting is a union of eyes and heart and hands. To sculpt something you have to pay very, very, close attention to the cacophony of shapes, shadows, lines and curves that make up the human face and form, feel them in your heart, and let them appear beneath your hand.

It is that paying attention part that I think gives us a vital clue about how we sense strings, how we comprehend chords. If every aspect of an entity, its color, shapes, density, odor, texture, sound, reflectivity –

everything –depends upon the resonance pattern of the strings that make it up, then we are already sensing strings, we are already hearing our chord and the chords of others. We just aren’t paying very close attention –

we aren’t, as Grover implied, using the full range of the senses we already possess.

That lack of attention growing out of disuse is probably a defense mechanism, a learned reaction to hold off the complexity of the world, to avoid being overwhelmed by it. We climb into our cars, “whomp” the door shuts out the world, the climate control system adjusts the temperature and the CD player wraps us in our chosen blanket of sound. Clearly the caterpillar is not the only creature that spins a cocoon. Still, it is interesting, and maybe revealing that human culture has developed to the point where survival, or at least comfort, depends on our ignoring the world around us. That seems quite contrary to the perceptual set of the other creatures with which we share the world.

Consider flocks of birds. Fall is, in the places where I have spent most of my life, a bittersweet time of year. The trees burst out into their party clothes. Vibrant reds and oranges, russets and golds pose on the hillsides, occupy the yards, and march down street like Mardi Gras dancers, freed, for a precious little while, from their more puritan guises. The air grows crisp, the sky takes on a deeper, but more crystalline blue. And above it all gather the flocks of birds.

I particularly like to watch the blackbirds. At first they merely bunch together, like slightly disreputable teenagers gathering on the schoolyard or a street corner. Initially, they startle here and there. Darting from bush to roof to tree in disorganized sorties – ineffectual. But, suddenly, without our really being aware of it, their handful becomes a dozen, then dozens, then hundreds and they are a flock. And the flock rises up into a ballet of the most complex choreography, wheeling and swooping, bending the very air to its collective will. Airborne calligraphy. Consider schools of fish. Diving in tropical waters is something I have yet to do, but fortunately aquariums and nature films provide us, the land-locked, with a window upon the wonders of schooling fish. Suspended in a world seemingly without top or bottom, phalanxes of fish, waves within the waves, sweep hither and yon, slaloming through invisible gates, down impossible mountains, and then carom around the last hairpin turn to burst across the finish line and begin the frantic race once more.

We think of them as a flock or a school because they move as one. They bank and swirl in perfect unity, cutting clean edges across wind or wave. But they are actually hundreds or thousands of unique individuals – separate creatures. How does an edge creature know it is an edge? Are they following a leader? If so, how is the leader chosen? Tryouts? An election? Is it some imprinted routine, a preconceived dance? Is it “just” instinct? To echo the question of fish and fowl watchers over the millennia, “How do they do that?” What manner of communication enables such elegant syncopation? I suspect they pay better attention. And probably better attention to holistic cues. It is probably not all about looking. It is probably all about looking, and smelling, and hearing, and feeling, and tasting simultaneously. These creatures exist in the midst of a multimodal world in which all their senses are simultaneously aware of a consensus of speed, direction, and radiant of curve. Their aquatic and aerial ballets spring not from a particular set of cues, but from the absence of that particularity. We are continually amazed at the things that creatures with brains the size of a Brussels sprout can do. I suspect the birds of the air and the fish of the sea can do the things they do in part because the have escaped the perceptually fragmenting effects of human socialization.

Plato, in the Timaeus, asserts that from the moment of birth we are seduced by the senses, “sensation, arising out of irresistible impressions” implying that we are somehow in danger overwhelmed by the richness of sensory input in a way that inhibits our making intellectual sense of the world. Chord theory asserts something approaching the opposite; that it is the perceptually fragmenting experience of socialization that blinds us to the totality of human experience, and hence makes our thorough understanding of that experience much more difficult.

Consider the intensity of your own existence. Think of the moment you realized you were in love, or the moment you realized that love had left. Think of the birth of a child, the death of a child. Think of the moment you sensed God, or became convinced of the absence of a divine design. Think about the stories in the Prelude to this book. Hold that moment in your consciousness. Now decide. Was that a verbal moment? A textual moment? A visual moment? Olfactory? Tactile? Or was it all of those – simultaneously?

Chord theory leads us to the assertion that the true meaning of a conceptual, perceptual, communicative moment – of a chord — is most legitimately expressed or experienced across all modalities simultaneously. And that the fragmentation of those intense moments into the discrete modalities of words, sound, image, formulae, color, shape, or texture does significant harm to both the holistic meaning of the moment and our full understanding of it. Let us go back to string theory for a moment and the idea of phase transitions as we defined them in chapter one: “’phase transition” is how we define a situation in which one entity moves through a variety of different phases each of which appears very different from the others, hence masking the more subtle commonality from the casual observer. And let us link that concept to the idea of non-trivial dualities from the same chapter:

“Nontrivial dualities … are descriptions of those seemingly discrete phases that reveal the underlying intimate connections. A nontrivial description of ice, water and steam would reveal that all three seemingly discrete entities were actually H2O in different phases. Chord theory would assert that a poem about falling in love, a musical composition about that same moment, a sculpture depicting the moment, a short story recounting the moment, a painting of the moment, a dance based on the moment, a lecture defining the psychological complexity of the moment, a series of formulae depicting the physiological changes that occurred in both individuals at the moment, these are all depictions of the various seemingly discrete phase transitions of the underlying, all encompassing entity that is falling in love. A non-trivial duality of falling in love would be the description that would reveal the underlying intimate con- nections among all those phases. And there is concrete evidence that such underlying intimate connections do exist. I read an intriguing article in Science News (vol. 160, 12/1/01) called “It smells yellow to me.” The article summarizes some work done by Oxford University’s Robert A. Osterbauer and his colleagues. It says: Using a non-invasive technique called functional magnetic resonance imaging, the scientists viewed the brain activity of eight volunteers as they experienced various combinations of smells – lemon, strawberry, spearmint, or caramel – and colors – yellow, red, turquoise, or brown. When a color and smell

matched expectations – yellow together with a

lemon odor, for example – there was more

activity in brain regions that process olfactory information than when the smell was given

alone. p. 347.

The overt message itself is quite interesting: that color and smell are synergistic, they enhance one another, a yellow lemon is more pungent than a green one or an orange one. One wonders, would an orange lemon begin to smell like an orange? The article hints that it might with its concluding sentence: “For example, adding red coloring to white wine can alter how a person perceives the beverage’s odor.”

A more startling aspect of the study goes unnoted. Consider the phrase “there was more activity in brain regions that process olfactory information than when the smell was given alone.” Well, obviously then those regions of the brain are not just processing olfactory information. They are processing something that has both olfactory and visual components. Maybe we do the complexity of the brain a disservice by divvying its regions up by individual sense modalities. Maybe to do so is a trivial duality, luring us into the deceptive discreteness of ice, water and steam and blinding us to the non-trivial dualities that lurk at a deeper level. Perhaps olfactory, auditory, visual regions are red herrings, (do they smell like fish or cherries?) blinding us to more synthesized holistic functions like the overlap between color and smell.

The long recognized phenomenon of synesthesia also points us in this direction. As the Smithsonian article

“For Some, Pain is Orange” (February 2001) points out synesthetes experience events and emotions across modalities. The article explains, For [those] with a condition called color-coded synesthesia, the experience of reading is a bit like looking at a mosaic. “I ‘see’ the printed letter in black, or whatever color it’s printed in,” explains New York artist Carol Steen.

“But I also see an overlay of my colors for

those letters.” For Tajwar, the letter F is

green. For Steen, it’s silver. But for each, the color stays the same from day to day, and

year to year.

Seeing colored letters and words is by no means the only form of synesthesia. Steen, for instance, also sees shapes and colors when listening to music, or receiving acupuncture – images that she transforms into works of art. One synesthete may feel phantom objects of different shapes depending on what food he is tasting. Another may experience a certain taste upon hearing a particular sound. Once, when Steen injured her leg while hiking, all she saw was a world bathed in orange. According to cognitive neuroscientist Peter Grossenbacher, a leading researcher in the field, after centuries of disbelief, the scientific community finally understands that synesthesia is a “real experience.”

One can easily understand why, historically, synesthetes have been reluctant to discuss these perceptual phenomena. Not too long ago such revelations could get you burned at the stake, and even today the inclination is still to see synesthetes as having some perceptual wires crossed. But let us consider another perspective. Maybe it is not so much wires crossed, as it is bridges left unburned. Maybe the non-trivial duality that describes human perception, conception and communication is synesthetic, multimodal. Maybe synesthetes

sense life the way it is, while most of us are perceptually disabled.

Think about it for a moment. Think about the evolution of human communication. Think about the moment when the thoughts and emotions trapped inside a human heart and head finally forced their way out into expression. It may have been a moment of overwhelming intensity. Perhaps a meteorite sped across the midnight sky of a lush valley, masking the dense perfume of night flowers with a sulfurous stench before slamming into the far peak, launching a fireball that illuminated the landscape for miles. Or maybe, it was a moment of sudden realization. After countless hunts and the deaths of several friends beneath the hooves and tusks of the giant boars, a hunter finally observed one of the creatures slip from a mountain trail and impale itself on the fire-hardened shafts of a charred thicket below. Suddenly the observer realized that by hardening his spears in fire he could confront the awesome beast. It could even have been the lurid internal visions prompted by a fistful of unknown fungi casually munched during a long day's trek. But at one magical moment — or, more likely — at many magical moments across the early pages of human history, our ancestors were so moved by something in their lives that they did what they had never done before: They tried to represent their perceptions. They used physical or vocal symbols to stand for what they had seen, or felt, or tasted, or smelled, or thought.

Maybe they crushed berries and plants to make pigments to paint on cave walls; perhaps it was charred sticks pulled from a fireplace used to mark on sheets of bark, or intentional patterns etched with bones or flaked flint points into other bones or stone. We do not know the exact details of those first representational markings. We were not there, and the anthropologists can provide only educated guesses. But no matter how it started, those paleo-communicators caught up in truly exceptional moments provided the seeds for the twisting vine that is the evolution of human communication and expression.

It was a wonderful and terrible moment. It was wonderful because it marked the beginning of our ascent from muteness, and it was terrible in that it marked the beginning of our descent into fragmented perception and the disintegration of our holistic awareness of the multimodal universe. The ascent allowed for the giddy spiral of speech into writing, writing into literature and liturgy, into poetry and philosophy and printing and word processing and the internet and email and instant messaging – all from marks on clay tablets. Hand prints on the wall of a cave led to pigments in plaster and then oils on canvas and acrylics and airbrushes paralleled by photography and film and Photoshop. The rhythmic beating of rocks and bones, the varying of breath across the tops of reeds led to cymbals and brass and Stradivarius strings and Fender basses and CDs and MP3s. But that same spiral of technical improvement and sophistication may have an evil twin, a dark side. Maybe as our ancestors “used physical or vocal symbols to stand for what they had seen, or felt, or tasted, or smelled, or thought” they were also learning to use physical or vocal symbols to stand between themselves and what they had seen, or felt, or tasted, or smelled, or thought. Think about it this way. If any conceptual, perceptual, expressive moment is a unique chord that is defined in all its characteristics; by the resonance of the strings –

attributes which we have come to call sound, color, taste, texture, word, image, shape, etc., – then our ability to share, communicate or experience that moment depends upon our access to, and our ability to perceive, all the modalities of the chord.

Imagine for a moment that you are attending a symphony. But instead of sitting out in the audience you are seated in a small totally soundproof room in the midst of the orchestra itself, as represented by the following diagram. There is a door in each of the walls. When the concert begins all the doors are open and the music flows all around you. But as the concert progresses the stage manager comes over and closes one of the doors – say Door A. The music still pours in from the other doors. But we lose much of the sound coming from the instruments directly outside the closed door. If the flutes are outside that door, they are now diminished and the other instruments located outside the still open doors shoulder a larger burden in the task of “being the symphony.”

[Email Robert.Schrag@gmail.com for the missing images]

A few minutes later the stage manager scurries over and shuts another door – Door C, and the clarinets sink into obscurity. As the second movement begins he closes Door B, leaving only the violin section sawing away madly trying to be the entire symphony. If we see the orchestra as the total chord of any expressive moment and the doors as our discrete senses we can see how the synesthete may be the person who is listening “with all the doors open,” while we are the poor souls trying to reconstruct the entire symphony from the sound of violins alone.

Let’s push the example a little further. Consider the opening notes in the Prelude to this work when I am at the Santa Fe Opera and wondering about my daughters’

reaction to this new experience. The symphonic musical experience described above is, in opera, further enhanced by the presence of voices. Let us position the sopranos outside a fifth door, the basses outside a sixth, altos outside another, tenors get their door as well. We can see out the doors as well, so let us provide for the visual components of this experience. Add a door to view the stage, a door to view the elegant audience, a door to scan the western horizon in this only partially enclosed venue, and let us not forget a door for the darkening night sky and the millions of stars that populate a desert night. And tirelessly the stage manager stalks the doors slamming each one in turn, isolating sight and sound until “the work,” is reduced to one door open to a single discrete modality. This is the dark side of the evolution of human communication, the reduction of human experience into the limited capabilities of evolving communication channels. Our paleo-communicators couldn’t walk into OfficeMax or Staples to purchase computers and printers and a few reams of paper, they couldn’t browse the aisles of Jerry’s Art O’rama for paints and brushes, canvas, clay, markers and sketch pads, they couldn’t log on to AOL to send email, or photographs or download music. Each communication medium was hard won; speech, writing, painting, music, mathematical and scientific notation, dance were each a lovingly constructed door to human experience. But each was a door leading from the human heart and head outward – they were tools designed to reveal to others what we had constructed in our souls as the result of our experiences, our interactions with the world. We did not fully appreciate that each door could, by lim- iting the mode of perception and presentation to the eye or the ear, to speech or song, text or image, shape or texture, become a barrier to the very experiences they sought to reveal.

James Elkins, in Pictures and Tears, puts it this way: Like other art historians, I am fascinated by

the pictures I study, but I don't let them upset my mental balance… . Th[is] damping-down

of my reactions has been a slow process…

.

These days I tend to prepare myself before I

travel to see an important painting: like a

diplomat getting ready for a summit meeting,

I do some background reading and take some

notes. That way I come at the painting well

armed with thoughts and problems. Often, it

works, and I have a richer experience than I

would have without doing research in advance: but there is a small, painful price to be paid every time. Each idea from a book is like a little tranquilizer, making the picture easier to see by taking the rough edges off of experience. Once, it seemed there was nothing between me and the Ecstasy of St. Francis but

a foot or two of empty air. Now it's like peering between the shelves in a library: somewhere back there, beyond the wall of books, is the painting I am still trying to see. pp.

90-91.

Elkins stands Plato on his head by asserting that it is not the senses that subvert logic, rather it is the linguistic, intellectual construction of logic that dulls our ability to sense. Consider speech itself as an example. It is not difficult to imagine the power associated with our ancestors’ newfound ability to say, “There is a mastodon the size of mountain in the canyon by the river. Stay away from there.” We can reconstruct a remote, dangerous, reality in safer space. We can warn our friends about danger without being in the immediate vicinity of the danger. We gain a greater measure of control over the wide and dangerous world that surrounds us. No wonder we opted to keep “talk.” It is, in most instances, a good thing.

But think about what we lose from concepts when we close all the other doors to that expressive moment – all doors save speech. We lose the texture of the mastodon, undoubtedly the smell of the mastodon, the actually shaking of the earth as it plunges forward. We lose the sound of the river, the humidity and coolness in the ponds before the canyon, we lose the glint of the light on the water. We lose the rush of adrenaline we would have when beholding the mastodon, the beating of our heart, the feeling of awe that accompanies the simultaneous interaction of all the phases of “the moment experienced”. Any uni-modal communication medium, by ne- cessity, eliminates huge portions of the information that is the non-trivial duality of any perceptual, conceptual, expressive moment – uni-modal communication elimin- ates vital notes from the chord.

So how do we avoid being blind to the complexity of the chords? How do we avoid being “those who will not see?” It is a significant challenge because our lives are actually far more complex than a multi-door room in the middle of an opera. A better image perhaps is to see ourselves suspended in a sphere in the very midst of life. There is an infinite set of doors and windows in our sphere that admit all the phases of the chords around us, the full range of each physical, intellectual, emotional moment. The task in sensing chords is to leave all the doors open.

It may be that synesthetes have an unfair advantage. Maybe they have some Paleolithic cross-modality bridges still intact, despite the millennia of uni-modal conditioning. But that doesn’t mean we can’t train ourselves to leave more doors open, to sense chords more clearly and in the process come to better understand our own chord and find its most harmonic tuning.

To give ourselves the opportunity to perceive the chords around us we must become perceptual tri-athletes. We need to “train” in three areas: the physical, the intellectual and the emotional. I have spent all my adult life in the classroom and so automatically think about ways to lodge things in the minds of my students. Phrases, rhymes, food – I would stoop to any trick to keep an important thought in their consciousness long enough for it to get internalized. Acronyms work wonderfully well, perhaps because they often trick us into thinking across traditional modality barriers. Roy G. Biv is a name – but it is also the key to the colors of the rainbow. It is a chance for us all to be synesthetes for a moment, to read in color: Red Orange Yellow Green Blue Indigo Violet. Our acronym for training ourselves to sense strings is “PIE.” Bake a pie, eat a pie, throw a pie. Do whatever you want with the pie – but the three areas we must cross-train in are PIE, physical, intellectual and emotional. P - Physical

Think of the moment, after a long illness, when you first realized you were well again. The world seems fresh-scrubbed, the air lighter, the sky brighter, birds sing more sweetly, the smell of food triggers healthy hunger, and even water tastes good. It is at moments like this when we truly realize the multimodality of the human condition. In this multimodal world, we are chord transceivers. We must both perceive the resonance of strings in multimodal chords and configure our own communicative impulses into expressions that can be perceived by others; reception and transmission. We must train the body for those tasks. That is made a touch more difficult by the fact that we do not know exactly what it is we need to do if we are to become as open to the chords around us – if we wish to hear in “bird” or see in “fish.” What are we trying to train the body for? We are no longer hunter-gatherers competing with larger carnivores and herbivores. We need not lope for miles across the plain in search of food any more than we need to fashion arrowheads and spear tips from flint. We don’t have to be marathoners anymore. Yet my friends who are runners tell me that the objective of their obsession is not to cover space. They talk about feeling energized, about an enhanced feeling of well-being, about an increased ability to both relax and concentrate, and, of course, they talk about the mystical runner’s “high.”

During the several years in which I ran on a regular basis, the runner’s high always managed to elude me. But the energy, well-being, concentration and relaxation parts – those were enhanced by running, and I can still sense benefits in these areas after one of my semi-regular visits to the gym. My friends who have embraced

yoga regale me with similar tales of the benefits of their physical regimen, as do rock climbers, martial arts practitioners and rollerbladers. I now recognize these various advocates as being spokespersons for a variety of phase transitions that spring from the underlying common assertion that we all sensed on that day when we finally felt better after being sick: a healthy receiver is more acute than a sick or an ill-conditioned one. I heartily concur with that underlying assertion, but need to offer a warning regarding the zeal with which the various spokespeople champion their particular sport or activity. Remember, the task in sensing chords is to leave all the doors open. To advocate the inherent superiority of one training regimen over another is no different than suggesting that everyone but the violins should be tossed out of the orchestra. It takes all the instruments to play the symphony, and we should probably take the same approach to our physical training –

lots of things in moderation as opposed to one particular thing in excess.

To train our physical attributes wisely we need to remember why we are training: to sense chords that are manifested in modalities that engage all our senses. Remember what we learned in The First Movement of this work: size, shape, color … all the characteristics of anything — brick, person, aardvark, stop-sign, flower, are determined by the rate of vibration of the strings. So when we train our bodies to sense chords we are not really concerned about running faster, climbing higher, lifting more weight, or doing more crunches. Those achievements should only be used as benchmarks to guide us to the training of a body that can hear, see, feel, taste, and think as acutely as possible – to sense the multiple manifestations of the vibrations of strings in chords. So in training your physical attributes, choose a blend of activities that condition the body for maximum sensitivity without encouraging the delusion that the activity is more important than the participant. That last sentence is important because it is one manifestation of the central concept of chord theory: the realization, maintenance and redistribution of harmony in your life. Excess is the enemy of harmony, and can often be seen in the physical aspect of the PIE.

Two brief

examples.

In America, on any weekend in the fall, men – and increasingly women, ranging from the very young to old enough to know better engage in an activity called football. Having taught for several decades in a large public university with a division one athletics program; I have on several occasions, had young men in my classes poised between the semi-professional football of American universities, and the really professional football of the National Football League. These young men are awesome physical specimens. First, they are huge. One young man, called “a bit small for an NFL linebacker” by the local newspaper, filled the entire door when he entered the classroom. Secondly, they are agile and resilient. Watch a game on television one day. I ask you to watch it on television because that gets you closer to the action than even the best seat in the stadium. Really watch it, closely. Now try to imagine your body doing those things. Not once, but over and over again for an hour for 13 or 14 or 15 weeks. I would, quite simply, be a dead person.

The 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah brought millions of viewers around the world their first look at Extreme Sports. Athletes on modified surfboards flipped, contorted, and spun down courses called the Half Tube while their short ski cohorts flung themselves sixty feet into the air before executing a series flips and twists previously restricted to platform divers or gymnasts. Again, I would be dead, even more quickly.

The point is that both these sports value the activity more than the participant. While the athletes are, in their prime, capable of wondrous feats of strength, flexibility and endurance; their prime is short lived and their bodies pay a terrible price. For young men whose hearts are set on the NFL the temptation to use steroids to achieve the requisite bulk is constant, despite the potential deadly long term effects of these drugs. The former professional football player who carries no surgical scars from getting some joint “scoped” or repaired or replaced is rare indeed.

A physician friend whose

specialty is “sports medicine,” reports that it is becoming routine to treat twenty-year old Extreme athletes whose joints and tendons show the degree of wear and deterioration previously associated with patients in their 60s and 70s.

However, remember as we train our physical instrument to be a healthy chord transceiver, the objective is harmonic receptivity – not athletic victory. You don’t need to be able to lift your body weight, run a mile without breathing hard, haul yourself over a rocky ledge with one hand, or swim the 200 yard butterfly without breaking stroke. In training our physical bodies to be efficient chord receivers we seek a well-toned, well-tuned receiver that allows us to see, hear, feel, attend and concentrate with a feeling of health and well-being. I — The intellectual.

The intellect is where we make sense of the physical, where we interpret that which our physical machinery has sensed. So while the tuning the physical instrument helps us to hear, see, feel, taste, to sense as acutely as possible, to attend to the full spectrum of stimuli, the training of the intellect is a bit different. The objective in training our intellectual instrument is to reflect upon what we have sensed – to order it, to see patterns in it, to make sense of what we have sensed.

It is important to realize that as we tune the intellectual portion of ourselves as an efficient chord receptor we are tuning for three different levels of “making sense”: information, knowledge and wisdom.

Information is, as an old TV dectective used to say,

“just the facts.” Today we would be more prone to say

“just the data points.” The informational level is fundamental. Data points can fluctuate, the cost of a gallon of gas, the number of elementary students in your county, your cholesterol level; or they can remain constant, the boiling point of water at sea level, the speed of light, the distance from San Francisco to Hong Kong.

It is important to realize that hearing, seeing, tasting, feeling (as in sensing texture and temperature) are not the sole province of the physical, they have significant intellectual components as well. Remember, my choir director lost the part of his hearing most of us do not use, the sculptor’s advice was that it was all about looking more intensely. Those are intellectual choices. To do that in the context of chord theory requires some intellectual “untraining.” Initially this may require focusing away from that which we have been taught is the center. What does love taste like? What is the texture of fear? The smell of a sunset? The sound of beauty? In answering these seeming strained questions we may learn to avoid the habitual classification of perception by modality.

The paradoxical intent in training the intellect is to maintain uncertainty. James Elkin again proves enlightening. In Pictures and Tears, Elkins examines the widespread, but largely ignored phenomenon of people who find themselves moved to tears when looking at pictures in museums. One woman, after 50 years of trying to figure out why she had cried in front of one picture, once, and never again before that or any other painting, decided it was just a “mystery.” Elkins’ assessment: As far as I am concerned, this is the real wisdom of old age: not accumulating memories and growing wise, but becoming acclimated to

not knowing, to never knowing. It gets easier

to acknowledge mysteries, instead of rushing

to find explanations. And if you are very

wise, as this woman is, you may come to realize that many of the theories you had constructed in your youth were wrong… . The encounter [between the woman and the painting] had taken its place among the things that make the world interesting and inexplicable,

and when I last wrote to her, she had left it at that. p. 37

This doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t seek “truth” or that our life shouldn’t be a continuous process toward wisdom. Rather it asserts that wisdom, like love, is a rose that “only grows when it’s on the vine.” When you pick it, saying “Here – this is it!” When you seek to freeze truth in time, the rose dies. Certainty, dogma, these are the antithesis of the pursuit of wisdom because they construct containers into which experience must be fit. Wisdom, however, provides trusted guides to the organization of experience, but energizes life with the continuous possibility that the old way may be wrong, or at least incomplete, that there is something new under the sun.

E — Emotions

I am uncomfortable saying that one slice of the PIE is more important than the others. Yet, I cannot help but feel that we have made far more progress in manufacturing machines that surpass our own capabilities in both the physical and the intellectual arenas. All manner of vehicles propel us faster than we can walk or run, they carry us through environments of sky and sea and even space that would prove deadly to the unprotected human body. The Concorde rises up out of New York, flings its fragile cargo of humans miles up into the sky and then streaks to London faster than the speed of sound. Passengers emerge and rent cars to drive to France through a tunnel that passes beneath the sea. Our tools and machines give us a great deal of physical control over our lives and our world.

Similarly, computers manipulate the data of our lives with incomprehensible speed; revealing almost magical patterns in the data. Thus are we unraveling the secrets of the human genome, matching molecules to create vaccines against disease, and plotting the course of vehicles destined to travel beyond the edge of our solar system, while still being reminded that “You have mail,” and receiving a confirmation that we have concert tickets for the weekend.

These staggering accomplishments – while primarily combinations of the physical and the intellectual — are all made possible by, driven by, or directed by, the final slice of the PIE, emotion.

Emotion is the fire that bakes the PIE and, like fire, it has the power to either create or destroy. Consider one of humanity’s oldest activities – the making of pottery. Clay is gathered, processed, shaped and decorated. And then it is placed into the fire. If the fire is properly maintained, if it is prevented from raging uncontrolled then after a specific period of time the clay is removed and it has become pottery, refined by the fire. Emotion works the same alchemy on the physical and intellectual aspects of tuning our receiver. Our physical receivers enable us to receive the manifestations of chords across modalities – to sense color, sound, taste, texture, movement in all their complex combinations. Our intellect enables us to group, analyze, access, interpret, even understand the patterns in the chords, but it is our emotion – that enigmatic human characteristic –

that either fires the patterns revealed in the chords into our greatest accomplishments or melts them into dross. Emotion is how we feel about the information provided to us by the physical receptors and ordered by the intellect. Emotion guides the way in which we behave when confronted with life. Emotion is the final arbiter in the tuning of our chord. And emotion is a choice.

I’d like to use a basketball story to illustrate how we can choose an emotional response. Perhaps it is inevitable that there be a basketball story in this book. I have taught for more than 20 years at a university in the Atlantic Coast Conference where basketball is taken very, very seriously. And nowhere is it taken more seriously than up the road at another ACC school, Duke

University in Durham, NC. Some of the rest of us would assert that they take basketbal l so seriously because they are currently terrible in football, but in truth, our assertion may simply be our own reaction to being beaten by them so often on the basketball court. As I write these words the 2002 NCAA men’s basketball tournament is winding down. This is the tournament that decides the national champion among the top division of university basketball teams in the country.

Duke was supposed to be contending for that championship. They had been ranked #1 in the country for much of the year. They had lost our conference championship, but were still expected to make it to the final round of the NCAA tournament. However, they were eliminated in one of the earlier rounds by Indiana University.

Duke’s

basketball

team

is

coached

by

Mike

Krzyzewski. He is called Coach K because the proper pronunciation of his name causes people to respond

“Gesundheit!” I am not a fan of Coach K. After all he does lead the “bad guys” up the road, a team and an institution that, in the eyes of many of us here along Tobacco Road, have never been characterized by either charity or humility. So few tears are shed among their competitors when Duke loses on the basketball court. However, only a complete idiot would fail to admit that Coach K is among the finest to ever coach the game. One year when illness forced him from the sidelines just about every school in the conference beat Duke like the proverbial drum. Upon his return the next season Duke returned the beatings with interest.

The point is that Coach K is a master of the physical elements of basketball. I have no doubt that he senses things about a basketball game – fatigue, energy, excitement, and depression that would totally escape most people. He is a finely tuned physical receptor of the basketball experience. Secondly, he is intellectually astute about the game. The disaster of the season when he was unable to coach is ample evidence of that. But I have always suspected him of being emotionally excessive in his approach to the game, not unlike his mentor Bobby Knight, the long time coach of Indiana University who was finally fired because of his inability to control his anger on and off the basketball court.

Coach K. proved me wrong when he was asked about his team’s losing early in this year’s tournament. His reply went something like this: “How could I be upset about one game? I get to work with these young men all year long. Given that opportunity, how could I be upset about losing one game?”

That reply optimizes the appropriate path in tuning the emotional slice of our PIE: be passionately solid. Coach K chose to emphasize the joy in the entire experience of coaching over the anger or anguish of losing a single – albeit “important” game. The message of that choice is, by all means be passionate — but in moderation. That is not as paradoxical as it seems. Let’s go back to the pottery discussion. Think again about what happens inside the kiln. The interaction between the fire and the wood inside the kiln is immoderate passion and when it is over the passion/fire is spent and the wood is consumed. The interaction between the fire and the clay is moderate or modulated passion. When it is over the pottery is complete, strengthened to the point where it can contain and transport fire itself. If we want to comprehend chords then we need to seek modulated passion in those three areas of the PIE, the physical, the intellectual and the emotional. We must tune the physical body to a point of harmonic wellness that enables and enhances the perceptual abilities of all the senses, while avoiding the extremism that can accompany the messianic fervor of any particular training program. We also need to train our intellectual component to constantly seek wisdom in an atmosphere of informed uncertainty. And finally we must guide our emotions to the plane of emotional solidarity, realizing that while it is passion that drives us to our greatest understanding and accomplishments, uncontrolled it can consume everything it touches. To approach life in a manner consistent with chord theory becomes an exercise in perception, reflection and expression. I do not, in truth, know exactly what that exercise looks like. But I will share my best guesses about it with you in the Second Symphony – which awaits you just around the corner of this page. 5

Chapter

Prelude to The Anticipat-

ory Symphony

It was 9:00 AM on a brilliant fall morning in central Wisconsin. The nip in the air promised that the glorious colors of autumn would soon paint the hardwoods that mingle with the pines in the forests that surround this little college town. Steven Point, Wisconsin is a strange mixture of bars, churches, paper mills and a huge insurance company that clings to the banks of the Wisconsin River. It manages to simultaneous be picturesque, parochial, progressive and incredibly isolated from the rest of the world. The waiting performer was blind to all that. He had been drinking coffee and chain smoking for the last hour in a small office tucked in a basement corner below the venue. Finally pre-performance jitters had driven him to lurk in the stairwell just off-stage to watch the house fill. It was going to be a small audience, no more than thirty in this intimate little performance space. He had played to hundreds more dozens of times. But this was different – a one-man show, his first role since being awarded the title treasured by all in this strange collection of players, the opening performance of a brand new play.

The hall was full. He checked his props – a book, a coffee cup, cigarettes and a lighter. He took a deep breath and made his entrance. Striding to the center of the stage he faced the quieting audience and spoke the first lines of a play that has run for thirty years and is still going strong: “Good morning, I’m Dr. Schrag – that rhymes with frog, bog and log. This is Introduction to Communication. If that is not where you want to be I’m going to pause for a couple of beats here to let you leave and go somewhere else. [Pause, sip of coffee, slowly light cigarette.] OK, let’s look at the syllabus.”

I had no idea when, as an undergraduate, I was diligently preparing myself to be God’s gift to the American theatre; that the stage upon which I would spend my life would be at the front of a college classroom. But in retrospect I can think of no better preparation for a life of teaching than an acting degree. Just about anyone can absorb content if they are committed to an area of study. Scholarship is a different calling than teaching. Scholars advance knowledge through research and publication. But teachers need to excite, motivate, stimulate, communicate. You do not learn to do that in the library. You learn to do that by discovering how to persuade an audience to believe that two coat racks draped with cheese cloth is an enchanted forest, that life can have a happy ending, and that a poor Russian peasant can talk to God. I consider it amazingly fortuitous that in the course of my education I serendipitously acquired a set of skills that proved invaluable in my career. In retrospect, if I had consciously attempted to choose a course of study in anticipation of a life in teaching, I could not have made a better choice than Theatre.

This symphony is one created in the anticipation of the sensing and creating of chords. It defines a set of preparatory undertakings that share with the sensing and creating of chords the same relationship that my study of acting had to my eventual career in teaching – they are skills refined in pursuit of an unknown future. I have no specific data to show a relationship between the pursuits I advocate in the three movements of this symphony and the eventual sensing and creating of chords. That doesn’t bother me an awful lot and I hope it doesn’t put you off either.

My own comfort in suggesting these specific “tunings of the physical, intellectual and emotional” is revealed in the fact that I almost named the symphony The Intuitive. You learn things about yourself as you live your life. One of the things I have learned about myself is that many of the better decisions I have made in my life were made based on criteria other than hard empirical evidence. Now, I am not saying that I ignore data – not at all. I wear my seatbelt, I usually cross at the light, I know that tobacco and high fat foods will greatly reduce your chances of surviving until next week Thursday. But it is usually something subtly beyond the data that nudges me into a decision. And despite some glaring examples to the contrary, I tend to be right about “big picture” issues more often then I am wrong. Still, I have never been terribly comfortable with the “twilight zone”

feel that accompanies that way of discerning truth. What is nibbling around the edges of my consciousness these days is the possibility that the intersection of my inclinations and my training has allowed me to peek into the shared harmonics of a few chords. It is sensing those chords that leads me to conclusions that would appear to lie outside the legitimate conclusions of the data. In the final analysis I believe we will come to learn that

“intuition” is nothing mystic, but is rather an interpretation of a kind of dataset we currently do not fully understand.

I am, however, convinced that those chord-based datasets lie somewhere in the intersection of the physical, the intellectual and the emotional components we discussed in the 3rd Movement of The Conjectural. And that is why I provide those three movements of this symphony — to explore the kinds of things I believe we will need to do in anticipation of sensing and creating chords. The movements explore the tools that we will use in the sensing and creation of chords.

And while each movement will address its own theme there is an overarching theme to the symphony as well. It is, perhaps, best expressed in a joke. It is an old joke, and maybe its staying power is derived from its truthfulness:

A visitor to New York City approaches a local

inhabitant and asks, “Excuse me. How do I

get to Carnegie Hall?”

The dowager glances sternly at the young woman and replies, “Practice, practice, practice.”

The first symphony, The Conjectural, asserts that the strings that comprise the universe also compose the universe by creating chords that find harmony or discord with one another. That symphony goes on to proclaim that in order to comprehend chords we need to tune our physical,

intellectual

and

emotional

capabilities.

However, I realize that I played a little fast and loose with the specifics, stressing where we wanted to end up while moving pretty quickly over how we were going to get there. It was a bit like the young art student standing with her sculpture teacher in front of the teacher’s latest work – a superb marble horse done on a heroic scale. “How do you do that?” asks the student gazing up at the intricately carved marble.

“It’s really quite simple,” the teacher replies,

“You just take a big hunk of stone and carve

away everything that doesn’t look like the

horse.”

This symphony, The Anticipatory, will be more helpful than “carve away everything that doesn’t look like the horse.” I am going to suggest some specific things you can “practice, practice, practice” in anticipation of both comprehending and creating chords. As in the 3rd Move- ment of The Conjectural, we are going to build The Anti- cipatory around the “pie” themes; the physical, the intellectual, and the emotional. But what were portions of a single movement in The Conjectural here become movements in their own right; movements that increase our understanding of chords.

6

Chapter

The Anticipatory Sym-

phony. Movement #1:

What Merit Have We?

What … merit have we? The elephant is larger, the horse is stronger and swifter, the butterfly is more beautiful, the mosquito more prolific, even the simple sponge is more

durable.

— Inherit the Wind, Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee.

Physically, humans are generalists. At first glance it appears that we are designed to do nothing exceptionally well. Instead we seem manufactured for mediocrity, to do a wide range of things moderately well. But that first glance is deceptive. Daphne Soares, of the University of Maryland studies crocodiles. Prof. Soares is particularly well-versed in how crocodiles sense things. They are apparently – infamous crocodile tears not withstanding –

very sensitive creatures. Soares’ research points out that the series of dots on the side of the snort that wreath the smile of the crocodile are actually very finely tuned sense receptors. A tiny drop of water striking the surface of a pond at some distance from a seemingly snoozing snout can elicit a lightening quick charge and an unerring snap of fearsome jaws. Soares investigated those little dots and “noted that the dots connect to the trigeminal nerve, which is the thickest of the cranial nerves in an alligator. ‘It is about a quarter of the thickness of your pinky,’ says Soares. ‘If something is big, it’s probably important to an animal.’” [“Gator Feelings,” Science News 5/18/02 p. 310, Vol. 161]

So what, we might then ask, is important to us, to the human animal? What do we have that is inordinately large? Think about it. Go look in a mirror. Remember now, we are talking about human beings as a species –

not you as an individual. Uncle Horace’s nose doesn’t count; neither do Aunt Jane’s ears or your father’s hands. Look closely, right there perched on top of your neck. Yup. Your head. In comparison to the rest of our body our heads are huge! And what makes up most of our head? No you still can’t count Uncle Horace’s nose. Right again, the brain. Our brain is really large, and if Soares is right that means it is very important to us. What is it that our brain does that is so important to us? If we contemplate that question while driving in rush hour traffic, observing the behavior of beings who supposedly have these big brains, the answer that springs to mind is “not much.” The calmer, more accurate, answer is “a whole bunch of stuff.” Some aspects we consciously control – forming words out of scrabble tiles, balancing our checkbook, trying to follow the time sequencing in Momento, contemplating the question of contemplation – are all conscious uses of the brain. Other brain controlled events, like breathing, heart beats and heart aches fire up with out our direct participation. That big thing inside our skulls does a myriad of marvelous things – but to simplify shamelessly many of our brain’s activities can be placed into a few general categories:

Sensation and perception. All the sense organs are hot-wired to the brain, just like the spots on a crocodile’s snout. Especially sight, smell and sound – they are stuck right up there together on Big Head. So all our perceptions and sensations – sweet, bright, rough, stinky

– are pumped straight into this really large part of our body.

Interpretation and categorization. We make sense of that sensory information by thinking about it and placing various stimuli into a wide variety of categories where they make “sense.” There are at least a couple of fields of specialization that are still fighting about whether that interpretation is physical or metaphysical

– but just about everybody agrees that it can’t happen without the brain.

Conceptualization. Human thought, reflection, inspiration – all those hoops we jump through in order to make sense of the world; or perhaps to explain to ourselves why the world doesn’t make sense. Again, while folks may debate whether brain chemistry or a divine spark lies at the center of the process; thought reflection and inspiration do not occur in people without brains. The cessation of brain activity defines death. It seems reasonable to assert that it is the presence of brain activity that defines life.

So the brain is the big organ we don’t want to do without – because it allows us to distill meaning from all the other parts and perceptions and sensations of our body. And that is a vital thing to remember: our brains

– as wonderful as they are – need input to function. No stimulus means no reaction. No input means no feeling, no thought, no emotion. I realize that we dream without input, that people in sensory deprived states will report seeing and hearing things that weren’t there. Those events are not, however, evidence that the brain doesn’t need input. Quite the contrary; they are evidence that the brain, if deprived of input, will recall and reconfigure past input to create the self-deception of new experience. Our brains then, those huge collections of neurons and magic sloshing around in our craniums, are dependent upon the rest of the body to move them into the presence of stimulation. If chords are the collective characteristics of harmonically related things, thoughts, and experiences, then in order to sense and eventually create chords then we have to get the brain out among the chords. That is why we tune the physical – to make our body an unresisting partner in our sensing of chords. If we want to sense chords then we need to put ourselves in the presence of chords – we need to make a specific effort to put ourselves into situations that can enrich our lives, enlighten our intellect, delight our souls.

Think of children, 6 or 7 or 8 years old, confronted by a wide expanse of yard or field dotted with dandelions. Their reaction is to run through it, just as their first reaction to a tree with low and inviting limbs is to climb it, just as their first reaction to a bubbling fountain in a city square is to wade in it. They do those things intuitively because they sense that the full experience of the moment is in participation, not passive observation. And their body, thoughtlessly, joyfully, takes them where they want to go.

As older, more mature, people we rein our inclinations in a bit. Partly because we have been schooled in what is “allowed or appropriate,” but also because our body has begun to raise some objections: “You want me to do what?!” it asks. The problem is that it often gets to the point where our body doesn’t only object to running aimlessly through fields and climbing trees at random; soon it contests our decision to climb the long stairs to the upper gallery at the museum, to cross the narrow bridge to the next meadow, to hold itself in willing suspension through the final act of the opera or the last scene in a film. Our body begins to conspire against us, it gets in the way of experiencing life, it prevents our putting ourselves in the presence of chords. This is what we are training against. We are training for a return to unconscious energy, we are training to reach the level of fitness when energy returns to the extent where we don’t think about it – we just do what puts us in the presence of chords.

Ansel Adams tramped the valleys of Yosemite well into his eighth decade. He didn’t do it for the exercise, he did it to put himself in the presence of the chords with which he had resonated all his life. He did it to remain among the vistas he loved. He did for the same reason six year olds climb trees, to be where the action was, to be where it felt right. That is why we need to train the physical – to participate in the joyous.

However, I do not believe we can train for something joyous by participating in something distasteful. It

makes far more sense to do what you like in order to be able to do what you want. I realize that is in direct contradiction to the “No pain, no gain” exhortations of physical trainers all over the country; but I’m sorry, it just doesn’t make sense to me. Yes, I realize that I have just argued that we need to possess a certain level of fitness to put ourselves in the presence of chords. But it does not automatically follow that I must suffer for hours in a gym to attain that level of fitness.

Let us go back to the child in the field again. She looks out over the field, becomes entranced by the dandelions and is soon off running among them, dipping, twisting, and bending to gather the brightest or fluffiest. Then she encounters the inviting branches of a tree and scrambles up to survey her field. (Of course it is her field. Didn’t her Dad park his car right over there next to it? Wasn’t that her lunch waiting on her blanket over by the gate? Of course it is her field.) Scrambling down, she scampers off in pursuit of “the best patch of dandelions ever,” which she spied from her leafy perch. That is a far cry from children gathering on an athletic field and sprinting up and down the field in pursuit of the rather abstract goal of being chosen to run up and down a similar field while trying to kick a ball into a net. This really isn’t a tirade against organized sports, the point is that the child running through the field is getting every bit as much exercise as the child at soccer practice. The soccer practice is not inherently superior because it is organized around, and designed for, physical training in the pursuit of athletic victory. For many children that organization destroys the pure physical joy of running.

It is the same for us. To train yourself to sense and express chords you need to select a regular training program that is totally “you-centered” focused on a range of activities you really enjoy. Let’s look at each of those ideas a bit more closely.

A regular training program. Remember, fitness is the one exam you can’t cram for. Pulling an all-nighter for aerobics would be counter-productive. For any exercise program to be effective it has to be done regularly. That means you have to build it into your routine. It has to be a regular part of your life, like lunch or laundry or staff meeting. It goes into your calendar, it is not something you push aside easily, it has to become a priority. It has to be as important as getting your kids to their [fill in the blank] lessons, as getting your spouse to the train station, as watching your favorite TV program, as making it to faculty meeting, to the group planning session, as the glass of red wine you take for your heart every night while watching the news. It has to be a regular, important part of your life.

Fine, let’s think about that for a moment. Consider those things that have attained that status in your life. They tend to fall into three discrete categories: things I have to do – my work, in my home or office or both; and things I want to do – my hobbies and avocations, time with friends and family; and things that are a little bit of both; making play dates for the kids, helping a colleague move his office, announcing at the kids swim meet. You get the idea, and have your own items for each of those slots.

Now let’s think about exercise. Where does swimming laps really fit on that list? Where does doing crunches really rank? I pick on those two not because they can’t fit into a “want to do” category, I pick on them because they don’t happen to fit in mine. And that is the point – for exercise to really get on the permanent “do list” of your life it has to be something that you really love –love for itself, not as preparation for something else. For example, I have this friend; my age, my height, even looks a lot like me. Anyhow, I have this friend who really loves to dance. His major form of exercise is to put his favorite music on the stereo, strap on some light ankle weights, pick up a couple of five pound dumb bells; crank the music up and boogie. A popular song of the late 1990s told us to “dance like nobody’s watching.”

That is tough because it requires us to act in an uninhibited manner in a public place. I suggest we “dance when nobody’s watching,” which is a piece of cake. I, er, my friend does half the workout with the weights, and then for the second half takes them off and just floats. Sometimes he even has the glass of red wine for his heart while “working out.”

What makes this workout different from those videotapes or morning exercise programs on the Awesome Abs Channel? I think the most important difference is that you are the choreographer. In every aerobics class, dancercise class, jazzercise class, rockercise class I have ever seen there is someone on the tape doing the “right thing”

while you try to watch the TV and do the “right thing” at the right time, backwards – because the TV reverses the movement of the leader. It always reminds me what Ginger Rogers is rumored to have said about the challenges of dancing with Fred Astaire: “It wasn’t really that hard. I just did what Fred did, only backwards and in high heels.”

In the “dance when nobody’s watching” workout you define the right moves and you decide when to do them. No more stopping the flow of the movement because you did something “wrong,” no more moving from pleasure to pain because some surgically or chemically enhanced model, who spends six hours a day in the gym, is exhorting you, “Just 78 more reps and you’re home free!” No, you are moving how and when you want to, because you want to.

Now, don’t get me wrong, professional choreography is a wonderful and awe-inspiring thing to behold. I will never forget the first time I saw The Lion King in New York. The dancing was glorious and I was enthralled. But there were dozens of dancers on stage with huge puppets to control as well as their bodies and all the movement was intended to carry a specific message or feeling to an audience. That is a far cry dancing for fun and exercise in the privacy of your own home. Percussionists often point out that rhythm stems from the beating of our heart, and as such becomes the heart of any musical composition. Personal choreography is the cocreation of movement that goes on between our heart, our body and the music. And we always do it right. The objective in this part of training for chord fitness is a physical workout where the internal question you find yourself asking isn’t “Am I done, yet?” Instead the question should be “Do I have to stop already?” Choosing an activity with that kind of allure requires more than casual effort. It isn’t something you shop for. Don’t waste time browsing through the fitness tape section of your local video store looking for one that won’t be too depressing. Don’t walk through the exercise machine aisles of some outlet or department store looking for one that will make walking in place more appealing. Instead sit down and ask yourself “What would I genuinely like to do that uses all my body, and that I could do for 20 minutes or maybe even a half hour?”

Different things would have come to mind at different times in my life. When I was in 5th or 6th grade riding my bike would have come to mind. A little later shooting baskets in the backyard took over. I discovered that I could memorize things – dates in history, the counties of Ohio, the Preamble to the Constitution – better if there was a “dribble, dribble, shoot” pattern connected to it. There was a stretch of hitting tennis balls against a wall. I bested every touring pro in the world with my sprinting back-hand digs in the forecourt. I was awesome when it was just me against the wall. I played the game, did the commentary, gave the post match interview. I rocked. The point is to choose an activity that you really enjoy. An exercise plan should be built on fun for its own sake, not as eventual preparation for something that will be fun in the future. That kind of workout plan fits easily into the routine of a life, because it reintroduces us to that child we all once were — just out there running in a field.

Still, one workout, no matter how hedonistic, does not an exercise regimen make. You need to have a variety of activities in your exercise plan otherwise you will get bored. Even chocolate can get boring. OK, maybe that is a bad example. But variety in exercise is a good thing. I actually do get to the gym a couple of times a week. But here again I chose a slightly different path. “Feel the burn” remains a bad thing for me. I am not one of those people you see hitting the machines with sweat running down my back, a look of grim determination etched upon my face, running or pedaling away as if all the demons of hell were pounding along on my heels. No, I’m the guy spinning along on the exercise bike with his nose buried in the latest Katy Munger or Janet Evanovich mystery. I’m the guy cruising along on the Stairmaster with headphones on, lost in the music. For me “the gym” becomes a place to read or listen to music – two huge “want to do”

elements in my life – while the accompanying cardio-vascular workout becomes an added benefit. That bike from 5th and 6th grade is the third leg of my exercise triangle. No, I don’t mean that very same bike. It was a glorious one-speed beast with a shiny black frame and chrome fenders and weighed about as much as a Chevy van. I now ride another bike – not nearly as cool but a bike, nonetheless. I still love to feel the wind in my face, to wheel down lanes and sidewalks, to meander the wrong way on one-way streets, to strike off along a dirt path. I like riding my bike. So I toss my camera and my current book into my backpack and take off on a fairly regular basis, headed for my favorite fountains, gardens, paths and byways. But here too, the enjoyment of the activity is the central focus. I do not bike in the rain, I do not bike when it is cold, I do not bike when it turns from pleasure to pain, when it shifts from treat to task. When that happens I head on home, pour the wine, crank up the music and strap on the weights. Mind you, I am not advocating my specific regimen to anyone. For any number of people the things I avoid are their primary delights, while the activities I gravitate toward would be punishment to them. “Dance?” they say.

“Alone, with weights? How about I go with the bamboo shoots under my fingernails? Or maybe the needles in the eye? Dance? Gimme a break!” No problem. The point isn’t dancing, the point is regular exercise; the point is to choose a series of activities that you enjoy and to stick to them – in moderation. Remember the benefits of modulated passion. Our objective is sense the joy, not feel the burn.

Which brings us to another aspect in tuning our bodies for the sensing and expressing chords. Artificial aids are wonderful. I am very near-sighted. I have come to consider it a different way of seeing. The notion of waking up to a world in focus is a little terrifying to me. I like to sort of ease into sight – drifting through the hazy world I have always known before inviting the clarity that my glasses or contacts provide. Also, my “uncorrected vision” has the unique characteristic of being almost microscopic for vital close work, like removing splinters, finding foreign objects in people’s eyes, and doing very detailed doodles while listening to books on tape. My apologies to all those folks who make their living doing laser surgery to correct my “defect.” However, there are times when seeing clearly is very, very, important to me and I never hesitate to use my reading glasses, contacts, binoculars, whatever to allow me to see the things I desire to see. We need to avoid the vanity that prevents us from using the wonders of modern technology to access chords.

In the next couple of months I intend to have my hearing checked out. I suspect I am – in the glow of my maturity — losing some acuity in the lower ranges. I love music and the lilt of voices too much to let any part of them go if I can prevent it. So if I can increase my sensing of chords by putting those little things in my ears, then look out ears – hear they come! I mean think about it, Secret Service agents and TV newscasters spend their whole lives with little gizmos plugged into their ears, listening to things no one else can hear and we don’t think they are weird. Why shouldn’t I plug myself in if it lets me hear the music of the spheres more clearly? So we need to lose the vanity. If the motorized wheelchair gets you more places, if the cane or the brace allows you to walk with more confidence, if the lenses help you see more clearly, if the hearing aid opens you to new sounds

– go for it! If they diminish you in the eyes of some people the loss is theirs, not yours. You are tuning your body for the wondrous interaction with the chords that surround you. Enjoy.

7

Chapter

The Anticipator Sym-

phony Movement #2:

Understanding Blue

The object is to understand the difference between learning to focus and putting on blinders.

I find it hard to think of Georgia O’Keeffe in New York. I encountered her works mostly in New Mexico –

and the word New is just about the only thing those two places have in common. They are both wonderful – but wonderful in very different ways. However, the fact that Georgia O’Keeffe found a degree of inspiration in both, leads me to suspect that there is a non-trivial duality uniting the two places that still escapes me. After all, it was in New York where O’Keeffe gained perhaps her most important insight. It came to her one night as she stared despondently at her own works:

Georgia looked with a strict an unforgiving

eye at the attempts that littered her floor. Instead of examining the shapes, or criticizing the techniques, she looked at the sources.

What she saw was the influence responsible

for each work; she identified each picture by

the sensibility it was made to please. The acknowledgment had a daunting corollary: If all her work was derivitive, how then should she

proceed?

It was a moment of great bravery and commitment. At this point O’Keeffe began the laborious task of attempting to work purely from her own consciousness, seeking to eliminate everything from her work except herself…

With

unflinching

concentration,

O’Keeffe began to draw on her own sensibility. (p. 127)

— Georgia O’Keeffe: A Life, Roxana Robinson She realized that that traditional approach to learning about art would place her personal vision at risk. That risk more than outweighed anything she might gain from the works and techniques of others. So she began her own unique approaches – experimentation and exploration. Sometimes she would restrict herself to just black and white seeking – by elimination – to try to understand all the subtleties of color. Her subsequent works legitimized her concern and her unorthodox approach to learning her craft. To stand in front of an O’Keeffe is to be enchanted by a sweep of form and sensuality that is brought to life by nothing more than modulations of color on canvas. The young Georgia chose her route to painting wisely. In art – as in most things – it is results that most often distinguish between the common arrogance of youth and the uncommon insight of youthful genius. But could anyone but O’Keeffe have known that her way was the best way for her? And how did she know? How do you train the brain? When we train the body there is a general benefit that applies across activities. If I make the driving range a part of my exercise regimen and spend an hour every night hitting golf balls, the strength and flexibility I gain from that applies quite nicely to stacking paper in the supply room. The driving range exercise benefits other processes. It isn’t always the same thing when you train the brain. As O’Keeffe proved, the brain moves in mysterious ways.

Sometimes when we train the brain to do one thing very, very well, we are simultaneously training it not to do other things. In the 1st Movement of The Conjectural we talked about how the physicists who studied the very big only thought about the very big while the physicists who studied the very tiny only thought about the very tiny. These were exquisitely trained brains grappling with some of the most intricate questions human beings have ever confronted. But it was their specialized training that created the blind spots that flawed the outcome of their mental labor – they had put on the intellectual blinders of their specialty. So how do we train the brain without restricting it? How do we train for maximum intellectual flexibility? I think we begin by realizing that chord theory contains some far-reaching implications in the area of human thought. If one applies chord theory to education and intellectual life as we see it around us everyday then you are faced with the inescapable conclusion that we are doing a lot of it wrong. That assessment, of course, hinges on the crucial issue of what you mean by “it.”

There are certainly a wide range of “its” and some of those “its” we are doing right. The ones we are doing right are the market-driven “its” of the world, problems that have profitable solutions. And that commercial motivation has certainly provided us a pantheon of wonders. From vaccines and artificial hearts, through fresh fruits all year round, to cell phones, PDAs and CPUs, SUVs, and DVDs, HDTVs and bonsai trees; all the wonders of intellectual power driven by the global economy surround us everyday in America. That isn’t the

“it” we are doing all wrong. The “it” we are doing all wrong is failing to train ourselves and our children to sense, understand and appreciate the non-trivial duality of every chord we encounter. No, I don’t expect you to immediately understand what I mean by that because I’m still a bit fuzzy about it myself. Let’s work through it and see if we can’t make some sense out of it. The phrase begins to get out of control when we hit the non-trivial duality of every chord part. Well, we have been through non-trivial dualities a couple of times before. A non-trivial duality is a description of something that sees through deceptive differences to the deeper more pervasive commonality that lies below the surface. Remember? Ice, water and steam appear to be completely different critters, but in reality are merely different phases of good old H2O. But when we aren’t dealing with something as neatly bounded as a chemical compound, what are the non-trivial dualities we are seeking to describe? Go all the way back to The Prelude of The Conjectural and look at those scenarios again. If those vignettes are ice and water and steam, what is the H2O? What is the non-trivial duality? The “chord” is the non-trivial duality, the “chord” is H2O.

I have used “chord” and “chord theory” throughout the book, but have never really given a clear, precise definition of it. That is, in part, because “clear precise definitions” don’t really fit too well with chord theory which proposes a much more fluid worldview. Remember, we talked about the benefit of “looking away from what we have come to think of the center.”

But by now we have looked away from the center enough that we can glance a bit closer to the heart of the matter. For a long time I thought of a chord as a

“perceptual-conceptual entity.” And by that I meant a unit of thought/experience/being in which both the nontrivial and the trivial dualities are recognized – in which both the apparent differences and underlying similarities are acknowledged as contributing to the essence of whatever is under consideration.

For example, I have this friend at work named Ken. He is a classical rhetorical critic, I’m one of the media guys – so naturally we talk about art. Go figure. Actually the conversations about art began when I wandered into his office to read a piece out of the Elkin book, Pic- tures and Tears. Elkin was moving into some religious referents that confused me and Ken’s academic training has some strong Jesuit streaks in it, so he is a valued colleague and resource.

A few days ago Ken came into my office asked me if I knew of any paintings in which reconciliation was a dominant theme. He had been listening to the latest bad news from the Middle East and had heard a Palestinian or an Israeli say that their belief in the possibility of peace had “been broken.” It was a powerful phrase, he felt, a very visual phrase. “You know,” Ken said, “that would be a fascinating book. An exploration of the theme of reconciliation in painting.” I know, for folks outside the university that sounds really weird. But remember Ken and I had already had some excellent conversations based on a book that is a study of people who cry in front of paintings. The idea didn’t strike either of us as strange.

The thought stayed with me through the day. It was a neat idea, but there was something wrong with it. It was like the physicist saying “Let’s study the universe by looking at only the tiniest thing we can find.” By studying paintings of reconciliation we would become quite knowledgeable in one of the trivial dualities that described one part of the broader “thing” that was recon- ciliation. To understand the broader thing we would have to study all the ways in which people represented the idea of reconciliation – in painting, in sculpture, in film, in theatre, in all the presentational arts. That would allow us to see how people perceived reconciliation and then represented that perception so others could share it. Then we would have to examine people’s conception of reconciliation – how they thought about it, what other thoughts it was related to. That body of information might better be found in writings about reconciliation, sermons about reconciliation, speeches given after wars or in an attempt to prevent wars.

Any one bit of data – just the paintings, just the speeches, just the films – is a trivial duality, a description of one particularity from one perspective. When we put all the data together we define the ways in which we perceive reconciliation and we define the collective conceptions, the various ways people think about, reconciliation – then we begin to create the perceptual-conceptual entity, we begin to create the chord that is reconciliation. Once we have constructed the entity, the chord, we can look for all the similarities and differences across the various expressions of the chord – in painting, speeches, formulae, whatever. The similarities allow us to construct the non-trivial duality that describes reconciliation. Understanding the nature of the differences – the trivial dualities — in the expressions of reconciliation might become very valuable in actually bringing reconciliation about. Remember our Star Wars script where the inhabitants of the two planets refused to co-operate until they realized the importance of H2O for both cultures? I cannot help but think that if we could sense, un- derstand and appreciate the non-trivial duality of the chords that we call fairness, truth, love, and cooperation, and could sense, understand and appreciate the trivial dualites that appear to separate the various expressions of those same chords and bridge those separations. In this way, as “chord users” we would become far wiser people and the world would be a far better place. The problem is that we don’t train our brain for that kind of thought. We train our brains to memorize and specialize, we slight the vital ability to synthesize and generalize. Let me tell you another story.

A couple of years ago I found myself in the middle of a fairly mundane task that I suddenly realized captured the essence of intellectual development. I was switching offices. It is something you do every few years in my world. For some reason or other you find yourself moving your office across the hall or across the campus or across the country. And there you are standing in front of your bookcase with a bunch of cardboard boxes scattered on the floor. Early in your career as a college professor this task is a “no-brainer,” you scoop all the books and journals into the boxes, haul them from point A to point B, and slap them back up on the shelf. You need to keep the works of all those “giants in the field”

up there within easy reach. And when you reached your new office you negotiated for a few more bookcases so you could gather even more books around you – they are, after all, the tools of your trade.

Then there comes a point when the flow reverses. You stand in front of the bookcase and realize that there are books and journals you haven’t opened in years. The ideas and information in the books hasn’t changed – it has just faded in importance for your own life and interests. Now when you stand in front of the bookcase in preparation for a move, a new box appears on the floor. A box for the discards; books to be put on a table outside your office with a sign saying: “Help Yourself.” Fewer and fewer books end up on the bookshelf in the new office as you winnow down to a precious few that contain the thoughts you still want to touch. You still look at new books, but not many gain access to the bookshelf. The process reflected in the evolution of the bookcase is very much the process we go through in our lives as we seek wisdom. We gather information, we spend time with the information, we examine it for patterns that ring true in the world we experience. Those reliable patterns of information become knowledge that allows us to behave with power and intent in the world. The more questionable patterns we put on the table outside our lives with the sign “Help Yourself.” Over the years, if we are lucky and direct our energy properly, we distill broad categories of knowledge into a few succinct principles that guide us in a life that is “best” for us, our family and friends, our society, culture and world. That is what we call wisdom. Each of those steps; selecting patterns, distilling the broad categories into succinct principles, allowing those principles to be manifested in beneficial and wise behaviors, all entail the sensing and expressing of those non-trivial dualities I call chords.

The problem with training the intellect within the framework of chord theory is that we really don’t know exactly what we are training for. Remember, in the 3rd Movement of The Conjectural we said:

If any conceptual, perceptual, expressive moment is a unique chord that is defined in all its characteristics; by the resonance of the

strings – attributes which we have come to

call sound, color, taste, texture, word, image, shape, etc., – then our ability to share,

communicate or experience that moment depends upon our access to, and our ability to perceive, all the modalities of the chord.” If that really is the case, then from a chord theory perspective, the traditional categories of information and their traditional methods of

investigation seem a little less carved in

stone. If the universe is built on music, if love has a taste, pain has a color, and loneliness a texture, how do I train my intellect for this

“brave new world that has such creatures in

it?

That brings us back around to trying to define the perceptual-conceptual entity — the chord. That is the creature of this brave new intellectual world. And to fully comprehend it we need to understand both the trivial and non-trivial dualities that describe it. I further believe that when we can describe – in a variety of modalities — both the non-trivial and trivial dualities of a chord we are then expressing the chord – we clarify it for ourselves and make it accessible to others. I cannot fully appreciate ice without knowledge of steam, or steam without water; and all three are trivial without the underlying knowledge of H2O.

So, how do we train the brain for this new and still somewhat indistinct task – understanding and expressing the chord? It is funny, but the best way to train the mind for the sensing and creation of chords is to imitate a creature that has no brain at all – the sponge. You want to soak up as much information as you can – about everything. The foundation of wisdom is knowledge and the foundation of knowledge is information, data, the facts. The more you can know about everything the better. Initially, the more books you can stuff up there on your bookshelf the better.

It is never too early to start. The central task in tuning the developing mind is to encourage children to indulge their curiosity. I sincerely believe all children are curious. If yours, or those in your care, have started to display that terrible adult ennui that passes for adolescent cool these days – “I don’t care, it’s all so boring” –

then it is time to change their life; because something is drastically wrong. It may be their school, it may be their friends, it may be you, but something is killing their natural curiosity and it has to be changed. The trick to beating boredom and rekindling curiosity is, again like exercise, finding out what they love and using that to stimulate their desire to learn. It can be different for every child. For me it was reading. I loved to read as a child, and my brother and sister did too. Our parents’ “punishment of last resort” was to take away our books. Novels were our preference, but anything would do – the back of cereal boxes, instructions for sweepstakes in which “You may already have won!” We would read anything.

In 7th and 8th grade I went to junior high school about three blocks from home. That meant I could get there in about a minute on my bike, so I had the luxury of coming home for lunch. The real question was what to read at lunch. At that age I was firmly convinced that I could not swallow unless I was reading. The problem with novels at lunch was I would get lost in the extended plot, lose track of time, and be late getting back to school. Cereal boxes went too quickly and even I wouldn’t reread a cereal box. The World Book Encyclopedia became the solution. It was all there; from aardvark, through lemur to zoological, thousands and thousands of cool little stories. You could read what you liked, skip what you didn’t, and if you got bored with one letter you had 25 more to choose from! Awesome. As a result of this adolescent quirk my knowledge quickly became, well, encyclopedic: broad but not very deep, incomplete but still curious.

A word of caution here: this is like the dancing as exercise. I read the encyclopedia because I liked doing it. It was something I did for fun. Even my bibliophile daughter did not choose to follow in my footsteps in this regard. So while I do recommend that you suggest reading the encyclopedia for the sheer fun of it to children in their early adolescent years, be surprised if they accept, and never force it. Doing so will certainly damage the very sponge-like behavior we should encourage and adopt. There are other ways to foster intellectual sponging. Scavenger hunts in the library or online when you challenge your child to discover the name of the winner of the first Kentucky derby [horse, jockey, and owner, thank you very much], or the first woman elected to Congress, or the inventor of Rocky Road ice cream, are good ideas. It helps children build the habit of filling up the bookcase.

For some children the route to filling the bookcase may not look studying or school or research at all. I once knew a little girl who was fascinated by basketball. She loved to play basketball, she loved to watch basketball. She loved anything connected with basketball. She was lucky enough to have parents who realized that allowing her focus her life on just playing basketball – something at which she was relatively talented – would constitute sacrificing the non-trivial duality for the trivial duality. OK, maybe they didn’t put it exactly that way. But they realized that their daughter could either become a basketball player, or she could use basketball as a doorway into a whole world of learning. They fostered the latter. Sure, she played basketball and she watched basketball, but with her parents’ encouragement she became a student of the game. They got her reading about basketball. At first, when she was young, she read the rather simple newspaper descriptions of games she had watched, live or on TV. She read children’s and young adult sports novels and biographies. Her folks encouraged her to compile all kinds of statistics on teams and players. Her school projects became things like: fill a basketball up with air to various pressures – 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 lbs per square inch. Drop the basketball from the same height onto the court. What do you think will happen? What did happen? There was a period of time when this girl knew more about basketball than anybody I knew. She had the numbers on how many points her favorite team averaged “in the paint,” or “beyond the arc.”

She read the autobiographies of players and

coaches. She agonized when her heroes seemed unable to function within the normal rules of human behavior –

when they showed what can happen to young men and women showered with money, fame and praise too early. As she grew older she became interested in sports injuries and how long it took players to recover from injuries. Losing a star for 2 weeks instead of 4 weeks was a vital data point in the success of a team – especially if the injury came late in the season. That interest led to a broader interest in the functioning and resiliency of the human body. Which all led to degrees and a career in physical therapy. Her parents saw past the trivial duality of someone interested in basketball as either a player, or a coach, or a statistician, or a journalist, or a trainer. Instead they were able to sense the non-trivial duality of the perceptual-conceptual entity – the chord — that was basketball for their daughter and use it as an ally in filling their daughter’s intellectual bookshelf. It is also never too late for an adult to begin a secret life as an intellectual sponge. But it is different. As an adult our lives tend to become pretty stuffed with things we have to do. Even if we were fortunate enough to choose a life, a job, a career that we really like, there are often enough “have to do” aspects of the job to take the edge off the thrill. A thoughtful 21-year-old friend said something interesting the other day. “Do something you love for a living,” he opined, “And you’ll never work a day in your life.”

I love that as a goal on the 21-year-old side of life. But I’d hate to be judged by it as I move into my mid-fifties. As you move through life, tasks and responsibilities seem to cluster on you like barnacles on a ship. You’re not really sure how they got there, but there they are —

stuck fast, uncompromising. They slow us down – intellectually – they drain our brain. So when we go home at night we tend to sink even further into intellectual passivity. We watch TV, we read the newspaper – we roll around in the same old intellectual ruts. The trick to becoming a post-adolescent intellectual sponge is to encounter new information. Learn about all those things of which you are ignorant.

[“Maude, this guy just called me ignorant! Do

we still have the receipt from the bookstore?

‘Because this piece of trash is going right

back! Where does he get off, calling his readers ignorant? I’ll show him which side of his bread is buttered!]

I know just how you feel. I was a senior in high school. The class was an honors humanities seminar. Mr. Vance was our teacher, a man of both intellectual and sartorial flair, he seemed somehow out of place in our solid mid-western high school. Walking into his class was like finding a glade of lush tropical flowers in the middle of a cornfield. It was entrancing, but at the same time disorienting. He must have waited until the second or third class meeting to inform us that one of the course objectives was attempting to lessen our abysmal ignorance. They didn’t call them course objectives back then – they just said things like, “If we accomplish anything in this class it will be, God willing, to lessen your abysmal ignorance.” [“Mom, my teacher called me ignorant today! Doesn’t he realize that it’s an honors class? We’re already smart. Where does he get off … .”]

It took poor Mr. Vance a couple of days to explain to the parents of privilege that he had not called their children stupid. There is a profound difference between stupid and ignorant. Stupid is always a bad word, so loaded with pejorative meaning that there is just no way to soften its meaning, bless its heart. But, as it is usually used, “stupid” is better than ignorant. Stupid has to do with that first chord we talked about in the 2nd Movement of The Conjectural: “We are, physically, a totally distinctive composition, and that physicality predetermines the first set of notes that make up our chord. We cannot change the notes we were born with, they will always sound in every cell in our body.” Stupid has to do with our innate intellectual ability. If we were born stupid, so be it. We didn’t choose to be born stupid. We couldn’t choose our gene pool. We can, however, decide what to do with the intellectual ability we have inherited.

Some of Einstein’s teachers apparently thought the boy exceptionally inattentive – some used the “s - word.”

And maybe little Albert was a bit slow, or plodding. But as we learned, in his slow, plodding way little Albert could think his way across the universe. He chose not to be ignorant. Ignorance, to be unaware of facts, to not avail ones self of what is known, is a choice. We choose to ignorant by choosing not to learn.

A major part of tuning our adult intellect for the sensing and expression of chords is to fill in the gaps in our knowledge – to confront our ignorance. We have, as adults, at least begun to define the areas of our expertise. And our careers will insist that we continue to gather information in those areas. But the specialization of our society actually conspires against a broad, eclectic, encyclopedic knowledge.

I have a friend who is a wonderful blend of old country doctor and modern scientist. As my younger daughter’s asthma specialist, Elliott knows more about asthma and allergies than I thought possible. Being both the parent of an asthmatic child, and a college professor who teaches about information technology, I am a physician’s nightmare. I will surf the net, prowl through databases and encounter some new asthma issue or treatment to bring to Elliot’s attention. Invariably, he will have already assessed it and considered it in my daughter’s treatment.

But this intellectual expertise is also

combined with a level of caring that is exceptional. I will never forget the night he sat in our living room until well past midnight so he could walk upstairs and personally check on Emily’s breathing, “Just to make sure she was OK.”

Here is a man whose professional competence is, intellectually and ethically, impeccable – and for whom feeding multiple inputs into his large screen TV was a complete mystery – totally beyond comprehension. I was delighted to assist him because it allowed me to repay in some small measure, the innumerable kindnesses he has shown to Emily. But the mystery of the TV inputs also reemphasized for me the extent to which the modern world [OK, the post-modern world, or maybe the postmodern, neo-digital, cyberesque world – today’s world]

fragments knowledge and experience.

It seems as

though we must choose a personal knowledge base that is either broad or deep – be either a specialist or a dilettante.

Chord theory would say, no, that need not be the case. That broad versus deep isn’t even the issue. Chord theory argues — as we have already seen from the idea of the perceptual-conceptual entity that is by definition both broad and deep – that knowledge, the chord, encompasses both trivial and non-trivial dualities. Chord theory asserts that the notion of one deep knowledge base being distinct from other deep knowledge bases is in itself a trivial duality; that the non-trivial duality will reveal the underlying commonalities of all deep knowledge bases. We don’t do that by constructing multiple deep knowledge bases – at least most of us don’t. Life and time seem to conspire against that delightful possibility. We have to spend a great deal of time and energy tending to the knowledge base around which we have built our life and career. So the objective in tuning the adult intellect is to explore the bridges between deep knowledge bases that will eventually reveal the underlying commonalities. We do that, as Mr. Vance counseled all those years ago by lessening our ignorance.

I believe Mr. Vance would be pleased to know that this book, in large measure, grew out of one of those arrogant young high school students finally “lessening his abysmal ignorance” in the area of theoretical physics. Throughout high school and college I was math phobic –

an unrepentant arts and letters kind of guy. Yet one could not live through the last years of the 20th century and the first years of the 21st and not be fascinated by the exponential growth in scientific knowledge. My isolation from that world was lessened by the fact that I have been an avid reader of a little magazine called Science News for more than thirty years. My wife had called my attention to it shortly after my first marriage at the tender, foolish age of twenty. We were house-sitting for a couple of scientists, and the periodical, Science News, sort of came with the house. It is a weekly magazine – rarely more than 15 or twenty pages in length – filled with a number of encyclopedia-length articles [old habits die hard] about the current news in the world of science – physics, math, physiology, psychology, biology, etc. Most important, it is written in a language designed not for the specialist, but for a broad audience –

for normal folks. It was in the pages of Science News that I first encountered string theory. I may have even seen Greene’s book referenced there, though I cannot be sure.

The point is that Science News allows me to address the areas of my ignorance. It allows me to seek bridges between deep knowledge bases – physics and psychology, art and physiology, astronomy and optics — without having to construct my own multiple deep knowledge bases in those areas. That is, I think, the central task of tuning the adult intellect for the sensing and expression of chords: creating a personal knowledge base that be- haves as though it were both deep and broad. I say be- haves because for the most part those of us educated in this country during the last century have been trained to create deep and narrow knowledge bases. So our task now is to discover deep connections – to explore nontrivial dualities between a variety of deep knowledge bases. It is a kind of retrofitting of the intellect. As I said, we went to school in an era when the world was divided into discrete subjects and you often got “tracked”

into those areas where you showed the most “aptitude.”

Chord theory would argue that those discrete subjects were trivial dualities and that the tracking into aptitude areas fostered ways of viewing the world that made it progressively more difficult to see the underlying non-trivial dualities that unified those discrete subjects into chords.

Tuning the adult mind is in part an “un-learning” of categories, a “deconstruction of trivial dualities.” Your task then, should you choose to accept it, and engage in this process of deconstruction, is to find pleasurable ways to confront your areas of abysmal ignorance

[Maude, he just did it again!]. Just like the exercise routine, it has to be pleasurable or we won’t do it for long. There is just too many “have to do” things in our lives already. We rarely take on another one voluntarily. But a “want to do” has a chance. I suggest you start this process by taking yourself to a really good bookstore or newsstand. The idea is finding one with hundreds and hundreds of magazines. Magazines are a great place for beginning the tuning process for a number of reasons. First, magazines are primarily designed for niche markets – which means every area of human interest has its own magazine. Astronomers, dog lovers, bonsai practitioners, martial arts folks, organic gardeners – help me out here, add some categories of your own

– everybody has a magazine. So you will be able to find one that addresses a particular area of ignorance. Second, magazines are shorter and cheaper than books. This means that you can buy more of them to browse through and a mistake is not as costly. If Chicken Breed- ers Monthly wasn’t exactly what you thought it might be, no big deal, just slide on over and pick up a copy of Tropical Snowboarding. The idea is to broaden your knowledge base – to confront your areas of ignorance. Do the magazine exercise twice a week for a month, keeping a list of all the magazines you read. Rate the magazines – I’m a teacher, I give the grades: that one is OK, but no great shakes—C. Awesome magazine, wellwritten, great photos and art: A+! Make up your own system, but make some judgments about what you have read. My guess is that by the end of that period of time you’ll have found something you really love that opens whole new worlds for you. Subscribe to it. It is easy to slip out of the newsstand habit – but if the magazine shows up in your mailbox, you’ll keep reading it, and enjoying it. At the same time use your car time to broaden your knowledge base. Two things work fairly well. In moderate to large urban areas there are usually more radio stations than you can shake a stick at. Spend some time listening to the ones you never listen to. If you are rock

‘n roll, listen to some country. If Garth is already your music god, try the classical station. If AM talk radio is your thing, try a little NPR. Hit the seek button and stop on something strange.

Fill your mind with

something new. It is a great game to play if you have adolescent children who always want to seize control of the radio. Have them tell you why the hate the station you want to listen to and why they love the station that sounds like static. It is another way to fill the bookshelf of your mind.

In rural areas where stations tend to be few and far between, you can use the car stereo to explore the wonderful world of books on tape or CD. You would not believe the wide range of stuff out there: Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, Anne of Green Gables, John Grisham, The

Lost

Teachings

of

Joseph

Campbell,

news

magazines, you name it and it is probably out there on tape somewhere. Here in Raleigh we have a number of bookstores that will rent you books on tape quite reasonably. Some libraries let you check them out, and, of course, they are always available for purchase – in person or online. Play this card right and you may never hear another screaming radio commercial again. Which, come to think of it, makes this an excellent exercise in urban areas as well!

You get the idea. You want to fill up the empty spaces in your intellectual bookshelf. The problem is that you need to start getting rid of things too – brain tuning is part pruning. We seem to resist this. Both my daughters had brief but fairly pleasurable stints in scouting. Girl Scouts and Brownies sing this nice little song, part of which goes:

Make new friends but keep the old.

One is silver and the other’s gold.

It is a kind and gentle song and one that we do well to keep in mind. As adults though, we need to pay particular attention to the second line. It implies quality. It is nice to envision this ever-expanding circle of girl scouts –

one for all and all for one! But that isn’t how life works. As we move through life some acquaintances become friends. Some friends become silver, some become gold,

— and some tarnish and move out of our circle. I think the wise message contained in the simple song is “always be open to making new friends, and treasure those who remain friends over the course of your life.” The same is true with the intellectual bookshelf of our life. It is important to fill in the gaps on the bookshelf, to be open to new intellectual friends. We need to treasure those who remain our intellectual companions over the course of our lives; but we also need to get rid of stuff that is just taking up space, just gathering dust, that is tarnished and needs to go. The letting go part is tricky. And it would be dishonest of me not to warn you to be careful – messing around with your intellectual bookshelf also involves the physical and emotional as well. It is risky and not something to be undertaken lightly. Those things that we have stuffed up on our intellectual bookshelf, the notes that fill the nooks and crannies of our mind are not just a compilation of facts – they are part a our definition of who we are and what we believe. As we begin to winnow the bookcase, separating the wheat from the chaff we may well come to some surprising realizations about ourselves. We may change, and change is always surprising and often uncomfortable. This book represents just that kind of change for me in that it is not written with my colleagues in the academy in mind. University professors are an immensely varied lot. The coffee shops across from campus may feature at one table a professor who has dedicated his life to the evolution of pronouns in ancient languages. Sitting over by the window another professor stares into space, she is designing miniature robots for a mission to Mars. Waiting for a latte is a Dean whose entire existence seems to rotate around “doing more with less” as the governor and the legislature whack away at the education budget. It would appear that they have nothing in common save their place of employment.

In reality though they all probably have some of the same volumes stuck up there in their intellectual bookshelf. They probably all believe in the value of academic research; the process of generating new knowledge or testing old knowledge and publishing the results in academic journals. The pure notes in that chord center around the value of knowledge in its own right, the investigation of an area of inquiry that grows out of the sheer joy of intellectual curiosity. But there are very pragmatic notes contained in that same chord. Professors must publish in order to be retained, promoted to the next rank and eventually tenured – awarded a permanent position with the university. Deans need to be able to point to a publishing faculty to prove the value of their college and demonstrate that it deserves support and funding. Professors and administrators depend on fat resumes to successfully secure grants that ease financial pressures and attract more professors of significant reputation and bright students who wish to study with those faculty members.

It is a time-honored chord in the academy, but one that no longer gets much space on my intellectual bookcase. In a strange way my rejecting of the contemporary model of the academy could be traced to older notes in the same chord. Our family reunions seem like faculty meetings. Picnics under the trees at Schrag Shorthorn Farms in southeastern South Dakota feature a whole fistful of now retired full professors, Deans and Department Heads. They are the ones who shaped the initial notes in my chord of the academy. They taught me the harmonic structures that continue to define higher education for me. The area of discord that has grown up for me over the last decade or so is the very pragmatic issue of who decides what messages are of value in the academy and what is the nature of the intersection of a those messages with an audience.

The editors and editorial boards of each journal decide on what gets published. That assures that the mainstream of the discipline dominates the major journals, and most of the professional academic associations are not anxious to welcome competitors. Hence the number of actual pages available for publication remains static, the areas of favored research are controlled by a small number of people, and the number of junior faculty whose careers depend upon being published in those pages continues to grow. These realities foster levels of stress and competition in many academic units that I find counter-productive and distasteful. It is an environment which has become increasingly discordant with my own reasons for being in the academy. I like to think, to explore new ideas and to help my students do same. I am growing increasingly content to leave the competition for those precious and limited journal pages to my untenured colleagues. Of more concern for me however is the question: who reads academic journals? Who shares in the wonderful insight and new knowledge that is generated in the academy? Too often, for my comfort anyhow, the answer is “not enough people to make the effort worthwhile.” A handful of graduate students and colleagues read the professional literature, and more and more the intellectual property generated in the laboratories of the academy is owned at least in part by the private corporations who funded the research. Those notes are not harmonic with the chord that defines higher education for me and give me another reason to avoid publishing in scholarly journals. I know that seems like no big deal to most of you – but it is rank heresy in my world. Why would I do such a thing? It is certainly a behavior more punished than admired in my world. Well, it wasn’t really a choice – it is the result of a chord progressing. It is the result of continually attempting to sense what notes ring true in the important chords of my life and which disrupt the central harmony of things that are precious to me. We can certainly continue to behave in ways that are discordant with the vital chords in our life even once we realize the source of the discord. Our behavior is always a choice. I have chosen, instead, to examine the major issues that have fascinated me over the past decade or so and put them in a book designed for everyone. It is my invitation to you to wander down this path with me as I seek to reduce my abysmal ignorance.

8

Chapter

The Anticipatory Sym-

phony: Movement #3

Modulating Passion

Spring flowers, Autumn moons,

Water lilies still carry

Away my heart like a lost

Boat. As long as I am flesh

And bone I will never find

Rest. There will never come a

Time when I will be able

To resist my emotions.

— Chu Shu Chen (c.1200) Nothing definite is known of her.

“I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it

has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will

be nothing. Only I will remain.”

— “Bene Gesserit Litany Against Fear “ ,

Frank Herbert, Children of Dune

Confronting our emotions often reveals this bi-polar balancing act, poised between being ruled by our emotions, and seeking to purge ourselves of them. Neither end of that particular continuum is a very good place to be. To be ruled by love or hate is to live foolishly; to live without love is not to live at all.

We are training ourselves to anticipate chords in the belief that sensing, understanding and creating chords will allow us to lead richer more fulfilling lives. This training includes honing our physical, intellectual and emotional capabilities. Yet, machines can already claim supremacy over humans in some physical and intellectual areas. Our robots explore environments that would instantly kill the hardiest of humans. Teraflop computers crunch numbers that would make terrible flops of the brightest human mathematicians. But machines have no emotions. Emotion is one of the markers of humanity. To understand human beings and human existence, and to understand human beings’ relationship to the universe we must understand emotion. To understand emotion we must understand passion. Passion is the thermostat of our emotional lives. It is not an emotion in its own right; it is the measure of intensity of other emotions. Chord theory’s overarching fealty to harmony asserts that unmodulated passion attached to any emotion forces the emotion to “boil over,”

to mutate into a discordant emotional form. At the other end of the spectrum, emotion totally devoid of passion cannot sustain itself and dies. Hence chord theory would further assert that modulated passion is the most beneficial emotional state – when fire and kiln and clay come together to fuse something beautiful, something arising out of fire that is able to contain fire. Chord theory implies that passion under control is the non-trivial duality of the chord of human emotion; that modulated passion allows for the expression of, the sheer joy of, and the inspiration that springs from, human passion while simultaneously shielding us from the potential devastation that lurks in passion unrestrained.

But how do we get to that balanced state? How do we create that wonderful, harmonic emotional kiln that will allow us to start creating the exquisite pottery of an emotionally modulated fulfilling life? An excellent question, and I went to my local newsstand to see if they had any magazines that might help answer it. Nothing, nada, nichtes. I looked for Chord Theory Quarterly, Chord Tuning Projects, and Harmonic Emotional Life and was amazed to learn that none of those magazines exist! In their absence, let me make a few suggestions. A friend of mine, who studies such things, said to me,

“Bobby,

you

cannot

control

how

you

feel

about

something, you can only control how you behave in response to those feelings.” That is very good advice, and got me through a number of rough spots when my feelings were threatening to overwhelm me. But looking at that advice through the lens of chord theory modifies it somewhat. The chord theory version would read like this:

“It is difficult to control how you feel about something, it is much easier to control how you behave in response to those feelings.”

The difference is rather slight linguistically, but it is quite significant in terms of meaning – the chord theory version says that while it may be difficult, we can control how we feel about things. Modulate means to adjust, to alter, to change the characteristics of something. If we seek modulated passion, if we seek to adjust, alter, change passion then surely we must believe we have some degree of control over our feelings. I believe we do have the ability to tune our emotions to better sense and construct chords, and I believe we can all take some specific steps to enhance the process. Tuning our emotions has both a “take apart” and “put back together” phase. The take apart phase should raise some immediate red flags. When I was 8 years old possessing a Fanner 50 was my heart’s fondest desire. Phil Tipton, the older and slightly wild kid who lived across the street had one. I would watch him with envious eyes as he would slap “genuine simulated cowhide,”

and the Fanner 50 would appear in his hand. He would leap from behind the bushes, vault onto his porch and

“faster than the eye can follow” – bam, bam, bam, bam –

would echo throughout the neighborhood as he fanned through an entire roll of caps “with incredible speed.” It was like living across the street from a continuous commercial. My parents were not inclined to us having toy guns in the house even when “The Fanner 50, Genuine Simulated Cowhide Holster, and an ENTIRE roll of 50 caps!, could all be mine for only $9.95.” Still, there are few things in life you cannot obtain by shedding any dignity you might possess, whining, crying, begging and promising to feed the dog and carry out the trash for the next three years. A few months later I was the proud owner of my own Fanner 50.

It was my ultimate joy for a week. And then it stopped

“fanning.” Fanning — for those you unfortunate enough to have been raised in the post-Fanner 50 world – is the process by which you fire your cap gun without pulling the trigger. You “fan” the hammer in a “lightening fast”

movement that looks a great deal like one hand clapping. Well, to continue in a Zen mode, if a Fanner 50 cannot fan is it still a Fanner 50? Not in my 8 year old mind! You had to pull the trigger to fire each cap. I would lie in bed at night thinking that there had never been a cap gun so bland as my Fanner 50 that would not fan.

So I took it apart. It never worked again.

The point is when we start taking our emotions apart there is always a chance they won’t go back together again in exactly the same way. So as we begin practicing the taking apart phase, don’t use your emotional Fanner 50, choose something expendable, the emotional equivalent one of your sister’s Barbies.

OK, the taking apart phase of emotional tuning has to do with separating emotion from the object of your emotion. There are always those two components to every emotional experience; there is the emotion, the feeling –

love, hate, sadness, anger, whatever – and there is the entity, person, place, event, activity that arouses that emotion in you. We want to pick an emotion-entity pair and peel them apart. Now do you see why I advised you not to use your Fanner 50?

I suggest playing with something that seems important, but really isn’t; and already has cycles during which the emotional intensity waxes and wanes. Something like sports – the ones you watch, not the ones you participate in. Sports like college football, professional figure skating, the NBA and WNBA, professional baseball. Sports like that. [Maude! He just said the Cubbies aren’t really important! Is there some way we can get him fired?!] No, wait, really, think about it for a moment. When you watch the game, you are involved, excited, and as the final seconds tick away you either exult, “We Rule!” or complain, “I cannot believe it! Again!

That idiot [insert player, coach, manager, owner, or referee] does it every time!” But the joy or sorrow quickly fades as “real life” moves on – or at least it should. It is that transient notion of “sports-based” emotion that makes them a good choice for our emotion tuning exercise.

The first step is to choose a sports entity that you really like, it can be a team if you want to deal with a team sport, or it can be an individual if you want to deal with a sport that is primarily an individual endeavor like golf, tennis, figure skating, or swimming. This choice defines the general area you are going to examine

– it is the entity that arouses the emotion in you. The next step is to increase your understanding of, and appreciation of, the sport. You do this in isolation from the team or individual that originally attracted you to the sport. This is not about the Cubs, or Tiger Woods, or Michelle Kwan – this is about baseball, or golf, or figure skating. This part of the process is just like confronting an area of ignorance in the intellectual training. You want to learn as much about the sport as possible. You want to learn the rules, history and lore of the sport. Now don’t go crazy, this is not a major research project. Maybe one good book on the sport and a couple of passes through the newsstand for some interesting magazines should do the job. The idea is to become knowledgeable

about

the

sport

that

makes

you

emotional.

Once you are knowledgeable about the sport you want to apply the knowledge to your observation of the sport –

still removed from the team or individual that drew you to the sport itself. So you need to find a way to watch your sport without your favorite figure or team in that sport. Watch a few games between other teams, watch a meet in which your favorite is not competing – but don’t pick a new favorite. That is really hard. In America we taught to really want to have good guys and bad guys, someone to root for and someone to oppose.

I remember a car ride I took as a child. I have no idea how old I was, but I was in the back seat and it was raining and the ride was long enough that I grew tired. I was alternately dozing and staring out the window at the rain. I began to notice the drops of rain on the window itself – gravity was pulling them down the window while the wind blew them back toward the rear of the car. They appeared to be struggling to reach the bottom of the window. It was, I decided, a race. I chose a favorite drop and urged it on with silent cheers – “Go drop!

Go! You can beat ‘em!” And as another drop threatened to overtake my favorite – which had appeared comfortably ahead – “Get back you booger! Leave my drop alone!” We root for things. You have to try not to in this exercise.

When you are watching the event, in which your favorite is not participating, try to assume the attitude of a judge or an unbiased commentator. Attempt to apply your newly expanded expertise and background of the sport to an unbiased appreciation of the sport. Consciously focus on acknowledging and applauding both effort and accomplishment. Think of it as a trip to a gallery instead of a competition, a gallery in which the performance of each athlete is a master class, a demonstration of the sport as art form. Try this exercise a few times – shifting teams, or perhaps from the women’s to the men’s version of the sport. This, too, helps you fight the natural inclination to pick a favorite. Keep focusing, as much as possible, on the sport as an art or craft. What we are trying to do here is establish an appreciative category for the sport. If you initially chose a particular college basketball team – learn as much as you can about basketball, if Tiger Woods was your choice, learn about golf, Michelle – skating, you get the idea. Then learn to appreciate the other raindrops; step outside your favorite, learn to value all who demonstrate a love of and skill in the sport you have chosen. Now you return to your favorite. Watch them play. Go back to your unabashed state of “fan-dom.” Wear big wedges of cheese on your head. Paint yourself different colors. Put bumper stickers on your car that advocate putting your favorite coach or player in the Oval Office. But don’t be surprised if it feels a little different. Don’t be shocked if you suddenly find yourself admiring the skill and expertise of your archenemy, appreciating the grace of the other raindrops.

This is not so much a case of absence makes the heart grow fonder, as it is a case of absence makes the heart grow. We have created a larger, more informed space in our emotional world for the broader category – a sport in this instance. And our favorite certainly claims a place in that space. But remember the Fanner 50 – when you take something apart, it doesn’t always go back together the way it started out. It may well be that your favorite resumes its, his, or her former place in the hierarchy of your affections – probably so. But there is a chance that in the course of exploring the relationship between an emotion and the entity that stirs that emotion in you, things will change. And that, after all, is the whole idea of modulated passion; modulation — to adjust, to alter, to change.

Say we chose music instead of sport, and say our love of Louie Armstrong had led us to examine jazz. We might have wandered into new intriguing areas of that musical genre. Upon returning to Louie with our new enlarged jazz-heart we may discover that he must share that larger space with Rebecca Martin, with Steve Tyrell, with Eva Cassidy, with Billy Holiday and Lena Horn. Is that a bad thing? No, it is just a different thing.

I feel — and I believe it is appropriate to feel as opposed to think in this particular portion of the work — I feel that the non-trivial duality that best describes the chord that is “ emotion ” has less to do with good and bad than it has to do with weak and strong, and joy and sorrow, and love and empty. We use good and bad as the dominant continuum

when we ask folks “How are you?” But that really isn’t a very good barometer of our emotional climate. “Good”

really has more to do with joyful, strong and loving.

“Bad” is more about being empty, weak and sorrowful. Hate, the normal bi-polar opposite of love, is conspicuous by its absence. That is because I feel that hate; despite its inflammatory power, is really a trivial duality – it describes a specious entity. I feel that what we call hate, either of another or of yourself, is more accurate described as some combination of weak, sorrowful, and empty. When those feelings, associated with either yourself or another, reach a significant level of intensity, become sufficiently passionate, they mutate into a discordant entity that we mislabel as hate. Being unaware of the non-trivial duality lurking below the label “hate,” we are powerless to confront it. You cannot assuage hatred by destroying either yourself or the other; but maximizing love, joy and strength — the true opposites of weak, sorrowful and empty — does cause the thing we call hate to vanish. Unless we are aware that we are actually dealing with the combined entity weak-sorrowful-empty we can never unmask and overthrow that which we have come to call hate.

It is certainly preferable to dwell in the area of love and strength and joy, but all of us drift occasionally into the world of weak and sorry and empty. The notion of modulated passion gives us some degree of control over the time we spend there. By developing the ability to split the emotion from the object of emotion, we can exercise more control over the ability of others to induce specific emotions in us and simultaneously achieve more personal discretion in the distribution of our own emotional energy. We take control over the thermostat of passion.

If it is your job, your boss, your school, or your partner, spouse or lover, that is focusing your feelings of weakness, sorrow and emptiness the first thing to do is realize that the emotions are separate from the entities that you have linked to them. So the first step is not to eliminate or even confront the entities. The first step is to maximize love and joy and strength in your life. Discover what specific activities are linked to love and joy and strength in your life and wallow in them for a while. Roll around in happiness-making things. At the same time minimize your participation with those individuals and activities that focus your feelings of weakness, sorrow and emptiness. I’m not saying quit your job or leave your lover. Just create a little distance between you and those things that heighten your negative feelings. When you have returned to a space where love and joy and strength dominate; then you can make decisions about which of the focusing entities needs to be adjusted or eliminated.

When I was in my mid-teens I spent large parts of several summers as a camper and counselor at my local YMCA camp. Camp Evergreen was situated around a modest sized lake of the same name. At least the lake seemed modest until you tried to swim across it. Then the modest, calm lake took on different characteristics

–for me in particular. It probably will not surprise you to learn that I had a rather active imagination as a child. I still do.

Anyhow, when swimming across Lake Evergreen,

peering down with my more than myopic eyes into the non-chlorinated depths filled with a variety of aquatic plants, weird things would happen in my head. My mind would flash back to Edgar Rice Burroughs books, when Tarzan would be attacked by Gar-daz the huge man-eating crocodile. My heart rate would accelerated to

something approaching 700 beats per minute as a dark shadow would lift off the bottom of the mottled lake. Fight and flight contested in my autonomic nervous system. Realizing flight was futile, I would dive beneath the surface screaming “All right you big slug! Come and get me!” Miraculously, I was never seized by “twin rows of razor-sharp teeth embedded in jaws both large and strong enough to disembowel an ox.” At worst I would grab a few handfuls of slimy lake plants.

Surfacing I would tread water for a while, gasping for breath and waiting for my heart to slow. I would look up into the blue sky, slowly lower my gaze to the horizon, get my bearings and strike off again to shore. Upon reaching the dock one of my friends asked, “What were you doing out there in the middle, all that diving and thrashing.”

“Cramp,” I replied. “Cramp in my leg.”

Practicing separating our emotions from the individuals and activities that seem to elicit those emotions in us is a lot like treading water in the middle of a lake. The object is not to get to shore, the object is to stay afloat until we can get our bearings and then strike off in the right direction. We spend our whole life swimming around in the lake of our emotions. The object is to learn to float upon them rather than thrash around and sink beneath them.

9

Chapter

The Anticipatory Sym-

phony: Movement #4

Creating Chords

It is an insightful and depressing experiment to try. Go into a preschool classroom and tell the students that you need some help in making up a song, and a dance and words to go with it. Ask everyone who can sing to raise his or her hand. Now do the same for dancing, and then for making up words to songs. Isn’t it amazing? –

every child in that class can do all three tasks. They are all singers and writers and dancers. Then go to kindergarten, then 3rd grade, 5th grade, 8th and 12th repeating the exercise. The tragedy is that you will get fewer hands for every task in each classroom. I am sure many wonderful things are going on in those individual classrooms. But this exercise reveals that something terrible is also going on in our schools – our children are being taught that there are whole bunch of things that they cannot do – and among the things they often learn they cannot do are singing and dancing and writing and painting and sculpting. “Oh, sure,” they may admit, “I do some of those things – just for fun, but I’m not nearly as good as Jane, or Jose, Tanika or Terrance. They are really excellent.” One of the important realizations that chord theory brings us to is the realization that not only are we perfectly capable of using a variety of media to express our chord; but it also reveals that we are the only person in the universe capable of creating the expressions that are unique to our chord.

To understand the central ideas that lie behind the creation of these things we call chords, let us revisit a couple of quotes from the 3rd Movement of The Conjec- tural Symphony:

“Chord theory leads us to the assertion that

the true meaning of a conceptual, perceptual,

communicative moment – of a chord — is

most legitimately expressed or experienced

across all modalities simultaneously.

And

that the fragmentation of those intense moments into the discrete modalities of words, sound, image, formulae, color, shape, or

texture does significant harm to both the holistic meaning of the moment and our full understanding of it.”

And; “… the comprehension of chords is holistic. It involves all the senses simultaneously, it is a multimodal phenomenon in which we sense the presence of strings and

chords not in their particular vibrations, but in their broader expression as sound, color,

texture, taste and so forth. Therefore sensing the chords in our lives isn’t a case of finding new senses, rather it is a case of refining the way in which we use those we already have.”

That is what all the training is about. The training of our physical, intellectual and emotional attributes is designed to increase our ability and willingness to sense the broader, richer, more complex manifestations of life and thought and experience that is a chord. “But what,”

you legitimately ask, “does a chord look like?” I would encourage you to expand the question: What does a chord look like, taste like, feel like, sound like, what is it like to “think” a chord, to “experience” a chord? I have no qualms about suggesting that broad range of questions, because I have no certain answers to any of them. I have the beginnings of what I think are answers to some of those questions, and I lay those out for you in the final portion of this work; The Improvisations. But before we move into that section there is one more area of training we need to address. The expression of chords. The first three movements of this symphony consider the ways in which we can enhance our ability to sense chords. I have asked you to undertake a process of tuning your physical, intellectual and emotional faculties to better attend to these broad, multimodal, perceptualconceptual entities I call chords. But if there is one thing that communication scholars, those folks who inhabit my world, agree on it is that human communica- tion is a transactional process. We are not passive receivers of information. We co-create our reality as we structure our own assertions about the world and our life. To begin to experience life in the world of chords we cannot merely sense them, we cannot simply be receivers, we must begin to create chords as well. By that I mean that we need to begin to create messages in a variety of media, only thus can we begin to approach the multimodal literacy that chords demand.

Life and our professions often conspire against this. We tend to find a communication mode in which we are most comfortable and competent and we stick with it. Contemporary education is compounding this mistake by identifying children as visual learners or verbal learners or whatever and focusing modalities at increasingly younger ages. Real expressive liberation lies in attempting message creation across a wide variety of media. Sketch, paint, write poetry and short stories, sculpt, design a garden – plant it, make up songs, learn to play an instrument, take photographs – don’t just be a fan of those expressions that bring you joy — participate in them.

No, not all of them, and not all at once. My inclination is to say “Just begin with something that intrigues you and pursue it.” But that isn’t terribly helpful. Try this instead. Get a notebook that can travel with you – in your pocket, or purse or backpack, or in the car. Get a pen or a pencil that you can keep with the notebook. Now force yourself, twice a day, to write down some observation you make about some perception. A note about something you saw, heard, smelled, tasted, touched, ex- perienced in some way. Then try to think about some other sense that was involved in the experience. For example, say you stopped into a little sidewalk shop and bought a slice of pizza for lunch – and it was great! The major entry in your notebook would be about the pizza, the sauce, the toppings, the crust; all those things that added up to “tasted great.” The secondary entry would discover something else that was hidden in the experience – maybe the music that was playing, maybe it was cold outside and the shop was warm and steamy, and smelled fantastic, maybe the accent or appearance of the server. The idea is to look across modalities and write down the variety of elements that contribute to the total experience.

Do that for a while and begin to note what things tend to attract your attention and begin to think about how you could express those things that attract you in a form other than making notes in your notebook. For a lot of people the next step is making sketches of some element of the environment in which the experience takes place. No, wait. I know – I can’t draw either. But this is in the same category as “dance when nobody is watching.”

These would be your drawings, nobody else has to see them, they become a “step outside words.”

But sketching isn’t the only option. Maybe you find yourself writing about the sounds that surround each experience. Then get an inexpensive portable tape recorder and begin to create soundtracks for your notebook entries. Maybe you do “soundscapes” that stand on their own. Blends of significant sounds define an experience for you. We tend to listen passively, responding to sound or speech only when it is directed at us – but sound is all around us all the time we just don’t pay attention. The same is true about the visual part of our lives. Wonderful images continually surround us. Georgia O’Keeffe once said, “When you take a flower in your hand and really look at it, it’s your world for the moment. Few of us can paint that world as O’Keeffe did, but we can still take note of it. We can take pictures of those worlds around us. Ansel Adams used to have his students carry a small cardboad picture frame around with them. The idea was to hold it up and observe the world through the frame,as you would see it through a camera. You could

“frame” your visual world and start to see it more clearly, more creatively.

That device certainly still

works, but evolving technology has also brought us the

“point-and-shoot” camera, the disposable camera and the digital camera. All these devices are great ways of adding the visual dimension to the entries in our notebook.

You get the idea, right? It is that “looking away from the center in order to sense the whole experience” idea again. But now we want to begin to capture those observations. Two things are vital in this process of capturing our observations: 1) experiment with expressing your perceptions and conceptions across a variety of media; and, 2) don’t be intimidated by genius. We addressed the first issue in our discussion of your notebook. Now let’s discuss the “intimidated by genius” idea. I have always liked clay. Even as a child my clay

“doggies” and “cows” were recognizable as quadrupeds, and occasionally were even identifiable by species. But modeling was something done by children and sculpting was something done by serious artists so over the course of “growing up” my doggies and cows were forgotten. But then, it must have been 15 years ago, I saw a blurb in a local paper about a sculpting class at one of the art centers in town. I took the class and produced a portrait bust that, while not a clear representation of the model, nevertheless bore a striking resemblance to Momar Kaddafi. Momar took up an honored place as a doorstop in the bedroom for a number of years. But then, maybe five years ago I signed up for another class at the University Craft Center. The instructor was amazing. A talented sculptor himself, he had the even more rare talent of helping us to see that sculpting was about expression, about determining a personal vision and working toward it – not just a way of producing a product. I have continued to work under his guidance for the last five years and was pretty content with my progress — until the Rodin exhibit.

The North Carolina Museum of Art here in Raleigh had put together a stunning exhibit of Auguste Rodin’s sculpture. One of the most comprehensive gatherings of his works ever mounted, it went on for room after room before the monumental pieces spilled out onto the grounds and into the gardens. I was simultaneously awestruck and embarrassed. I was awestruck by the sheer magnificence of the work. I had always been a

“fan” of Rodin, but this was overwhelming. There was a piece I had never heard of, “Fallen Angels,” which is simply the most beautiful piece of sculpture I have ever seen. I must have spent four hours in front of it during the two weeks of the exhibit.

What a glorious

experience.

But then I discovered that I was embarrassed by my presumption to even try to create something called sculpture. This was sculpture, this was incredible art. I was still doing doggies and cows. It bothered me for days. I had trouble doing my own work. But then I tried to separate the emotion — the weak, foolish feeling —

from the work that was eliciting those emotions from me. I thought about Rodin separate from his work, and I thought about his work separate from the man, and I thought about my own work. I came to the following conclusions:

1)

From everything I have read about Rodin;

and that is a fair amount, he was not a very

nice human being. He seemed to have been

particularly unkind to the women in his life,

although his son and his apprentices faired no better. He was rarely happy with his work,

he fought with his friends and patrons alike,

and his art was the only thing that gave his life definition and meaning. It was not a life to be coveted.

2)

He was a genius in his medium. He is

able, through one modality, to capture a cascade of sensations across the entire spectrum of human perception and emotion. This ability to elicit a multimodal response through a unimodal expression is probably a portion of

the non-trivial duality that defines the broad chord that is artistic genius.

3)

I don’t need to be a sculpting genius to

enjoy sculpting. And my current work is actually far superior to the doggie I did when I was six.

The second and third conclusions are the points that are most important to us. We are not looking for genius as we expand our ability to express ourselves across modalities. And the fulfillment we find in our own expressive efforts has nothing to do with how it stacks up against the works of the geniuses of the art world. If Rodin’s life is any indication, genius finds you more often than you find it, and it’s effects are usually more pain than pleasure. We are simply trying to express one more part of an experience that we know has many aspects. When I sculpt a portrait of one of my daughters I am not looking for a Rodin response: “That is amazing, it captures simultaneously the joy and reticence, the courage and sorrow, and the laughter and tears of youth.” I’m looking for, “Hey, that kind of looks like Emily,” or “That piece has an Andrea sort of feel to it.” My sculpting doesn’t aim to be great art – my sculpting is a partial expression of the experience of being a father and of my love for my daughters.

So go get your notebook. Start jotting down the moments that lodge with unexpected power in your heart and mind. Begin to capture all the wonderful complex facets of the experiences of your life. Take the pictures, hum the tunes, sketch the scene, recreate the recipe –

whatever. Begin to construct some chords of your own and you will discover that you begin to sense them more clearly in all facets of your life.

And just what does that mean? “You will begin to sense chords more clearly in all facets of your life?” I was afraid you were going to ask that. Again, the truth is I am not really sure. Chord theory proposes a new way of thinking about the world and experience. It marks the beginning of a process, or at least a significant shift in the evolution of the process of thinking about life and existence. That makes it very difficult to envision what lies at the end of this particular road. However, chord theory doesn’t spring from some fanciful notion of

“the way things ought to be,” it springs from string theory, that fascinating new interpretation of the structure of the universe that purports to shed light on the way things are. The conceptual core of chord theory is: At the center of everything are vibrating strings, at the cen- ter of everything lies music that comes together in chords of increasing complexity that ultimate compose the sym- phony of the universe. Understanding that composition process, the ways in which strings and notes come togeth- er to form chords is possible in areasbeyond those tradi- tionally addressed by physics, areas like love, faith, truth and beauty.

The challenge that confronts chord theory is discovering how and what chord theory reveals about that composition process in those expanded areas of concern. To quote the Prelude of The Conjectural:

Remember, it is supposed to be a theory of

everything. The vignettes above are about birth, death, music, art, love, and God. They

are about the things that people choose to die for, about the things that make life worth living, about the issues it is best to be at ease with before we are able to turn our intellect

and

energy

most

effectively

to

others

things—like creating string theory. If the

“theory of everything” can explain how the

universe came to be and define all the laws of its intricate functions, but sheds no light upon those human verities that color our every

waking moment, then it becomes just another

“theory of a whole bunch.”

To try to explain the impact of the application of chord theory to everything is far beyond the scope of my life and intellect, let alone this book. But it would be inexcusable to end the work without sharing with you the way in which chord theory could affect the way in which we might think about a few things. The work will end then with a final section of Improvisations in which I take the framework of chord theory and apply it to a variety of elements from the landscape of the heart. 10

Chapter

Improvisation #1: An Ex-

ploration of Knowledge

[This chapter has a lot of diagrams, but Feedbooks is currently unable to support image formats. To see the images that accompany this portion of text please email me at: Robert.Schrag@gmail.com and I’ll email you the images.]

Ignorance has a way of making the wonderful

seem positively magical.

On The Improvisations.

I have always been enchanted by observing the unfolding of creativity. Whenever I go to New Orleans I spend hours watching the artists around Jackson Square. Some cater to the strolling tourists, creating clever caricatures in charcoal as their subjects try to steal sideways glances at the evolving image. Others are artists in the more traditional sense; allowing us to observe as they capture on canvas the light and shadow, color, line and form that define this unique southern city, shifting from regal to tawdry and back to regal again in the wink of a showgirl’s eye. But even more intriguing for me is to walk the half block south west of the Square on Chartres Street where the musicians gather. They are of all ages and shades. A white girl, who looks no more than 12, jams with an ancient black man. She is a wraith with a fiddle, he — a weathered rich mahogany statue wrapped

around a saxophone. The music is glorious, an auditory dance beyond believing, melodic repartee unparalleled, syncopation that is sensuous, smooth, subtle, then breaking free into a raucous cascade of horn and string. I stand motionless, mindless of the punishing sun, in love with their genius, transfixed by their magic, in awe. A few months later, back in subdued Raleigh, I accompany my younger daughter to a piano Master Class – the topic is jazz improvisation. I have volunteered to drive because I am anticipating the magic of New Orleans. We enter a storefront studio. Two pianos stand at a slight angle to one another. The master teacher walks over to us. He is a rotund but still pixie-like man somewhere between 30 and sixty years old, with a sparkle in his eyes. He is wearing a straw fedora, a Hawaiian shirt, white slacks and Keds. I wonder where the sunglasses are. We shake hands all around and introduce ourselves. They move to the pianos and I settle myself into an orange molded plastic chair. The little foot is missing from one of the legs, so if I shift my weigh the chair rocks back and forth making a clunking sound against the floor. I try to sit still.

I watch, they play. And as they play my daughter and her teacher begin to converse in a foreign tongue. Exotic words and phrases fill the air. “Invert the 7th.” “Begin the progression from the 5th diminished.” “Shift the melody to the left hand.” Soon it dawns on me – they are cheating. Improvisation isn’t magic. There are rules and patterns – there are secrets being shared here. I suddenly have the eerie feeling that Woody Allen is sitting next to me, telling me a joke:

“There are a priest, a rabbi, and a mullah in a row boat in the middle of a lake. After a while the priest says ‘Whenever I find myself out on a lake like this I think about the time when

Jesus walked upon the water, and I feel compelled to follow his example.” And with that the priest gets up, steps over the edge of the rowboat and walks across the water completing a full circle around the craft before stepping back in and resuming his seat. The rabbi looks at the priest and says ‘I know what you mean. I often have the same urge to

demonstrate that what Jesus did was a natural manifestation of the miracles wroth by the Jewish holy men with whom he studied.’ The

rabbi stands up, steps over the side and duplicates the priest’s performance. The mullah’s eyes are size of my Aunt Pearl’s

backside as he stares at his two colleagues.

But he cannot allow himself to be bested in

this duel of devotion, so he too steps over the side and promptly sinks like a stone. As he

struggles to the surface the priest and the

rabbi haul him back into the boat. The three

holy men resume their seats. The mullah

wringing out his robes, the priest and the

rabbi seemingly lost in prayer. The mullah

sneaks a glance at the other two who are nodding and murmuring with closed eyes. Unable to stand their “drier than thou” attitude he again steps over the side and does a wonderful imitation of one who would sleep

with the fishes. The mullah is again hauled

from the depths and returned to his seat. The

priest and the rabbi return to their prayers.

The mullah rises for the third time, but the

rabbi places a hand upon his arm and says to

the priest, ‘Father Murphy, are you called to

action?’ “Yes,” the priest replies, “I suppose we better show our friend where the rocks are

before he drowns himself.”

Woody got up and left – no one else seemed to have noticed him – but I knew what he was trying to tell me. He is, after all, an accomplished jazz musician in his own right. Improvisation, he was trying to tell me, isn’t magic. Improvisation is the elegant reconstruction of the world based upon an understanding of certain broad principles that can guide our own creative impulses. In her master class my daughter was learning those broad principles that would allow her to creatively restructure the music she loved. The young girl and the old man weren’t making magic in New Orleans, they were cooperatively recreating music in a spontaneous, shared, creative expression of joy. And that is better than magic. These next portions of this work are improvisations in that vein. Chord theory, in this — its infancy, is a set of broad principles that allow us to see the world and the universe in new creative reconstructions of what we believe we know. I do not offer them as certainties, I do not even offer them as “what is.” I offer them in the spirit of considering a new way of viewing the world. I offer each of them as an exploration, as a “what if?”

Improvisation #1: The Structure of Knowledge or

The Sound of Being

“As they are currently formulated, general relativity and quantum mechanics cannot both be right. The two theories underlying the tremendous progress of physics during the last hundred years – progress that has explained

the expansion of the heavens and the fundamental structure of matter – are mutually in- compatible.” [Emphasis added] (Greene, 1999, p. 3).

The same insight that pointed out the need for string theory also reveals the fundamental flaw that currently dominates our perception and ordering of the world. It was only when physicists sought to remove the mathematical incompatibility that the harmonic unity of string theory was discovered. It was through the act of mathematical rapprochement between the math of the VERY

BIG tree and the math of the very tiny tree that mathematicians discovered that, while seemingly correct from their own perspective, both trees needed to be pruned, modulated to a certain extent, before together they could reveal the forest of the universe.

That modulation gave us string theory, but a fragmented string theory. Greene tells us that “For many years, physicists working on the five string theories thought they were working on completely separate theories” (p. 286). I know, I thought about telling you that there were five string theories, but I decided that we didn’t really need to have that discussion, particularly since there really aren’t five theories after all. Greene makes that clear with two diagrams that can’t be reproduced in this file format so I’ll try to explain them.

In Greene’s book, one figure shows five separate stubs which represents the way in which the physicists first conceptualized string theory; as five different theories one of which would eventually be proved correct. We now know that they were like our Star Trek characters looking at ice, water, and steam. Greene’s second diagram looks like a five legged starfish and depicts the eventual realization that the seeming discrete elements depicted jn the first diagram were in reality trivial dualities of the non-trivial duality – unified string theory – depicted in the second. [You may find the part easier if you get out a piece of paper and sketch along.]

Chord theory, this currently evolving set of suppositions drawn from string theory, makes some assumptions about why it is so difficult for us to get past the trivial dualities – our particular tiny tree if you will — to the non-trivial dualities that unify the chord, that create the forest. So now imagine just the outline of starfish with five arms. That empty starfish is the basic representation of a chord, the outer “arms” represent the particularities, the trivial dualities like ice, water and steam or Greene’s string different theories 1 through 5. Now if you imagine [or draw] a line closing each leg off from the interior, you will have isolated the inside that represents the shared non-trivial dualities. The problem with the way we ordinarily interact with chords is that instead of understanding that what we are seeking is the relatively pristine non-trivial duality reflected in the interior of the starfish, we create the fragmented perceptual unit. Get your paper and draw another empty starfish. Now make a dot in the very center of the starfish. Now draw a line across each of the starfish legs about halfway up the length of the leg, leaving a bump of the leg above the line. Now draw a line from each end of the lines you just drew down to the center dot. You now have 5 icecream cone shapes inside the starfish - five trivial dualities slashing their way down to the very center of the non-trivial duality center. You can also think of the icecream cones as “areas of specialization”

Two questions are presented by this state of affairs, and hopefully, your drawing: 1) How do we “de-fragment” the “specialized” chord to reveal its non-trivial duality? And, 2) How do we understand and characterize the material that legitimately falls within the non-trivial duality area of the chord? Revealing the non-trivial duality.

The first step in getting a chord to reveal its non-trivial duality is remove the wedges of mutual ignorance that are represented by the spaces between the ice-cream cones, and by doing so, reveal the non-trivial duality that actually fills those spaces. But, of course, as Mr. Vance made it very clear to us in high school, ignorance doesn’t just fly away because we want it to. We have to work at it. We need to make a conscious effort to “lessen our abysmal ignorance,” just as the physicists did when they sought the rapprochement between the VERY BIG and the very tiny. We do this by expanding the scope of our expertise. If we get used to looking for bridges – for deep level connections among various aspects of life – we push the sides of the funnels of expertise apart. And as we force the ice-cream cones of expertise to widen at the bottom, they force out the wedges of ignorance out — as the expanding insight of each area of specialization reveals its relationship to the others.

To put it another way, when we broaden the funnels of expertise that we use to try to understand a chord we create overlapping new areas of understanding. It is that new understanding that forces the wedges of ignorance out of the chord. If each area of specialization examining the chord from the perspective of its particularity, its trivial duality, consciously reaches toward the others then the wedges of ignorance are finally expurged and the non-trivial duality of the chord emerges.

When all the areas of specialization begin reaching out to each other we get a chord that looks like a whole starfish which is in reality the non-trivial duality that was there all the time, just hidden by our abysmal ignorance. But I suspect that there is something else going on as well. My guess is that as the non-trivial duality of the chord emerges, the emphasis on and the seeming distinctness of the trivial arms declines so that the arms get absorbed into the non-trivial duality, and they exist only as informative, but minor variations on the chord. Leaving us with a subtly modulated harmonic whole that looks more like an amoeba than a starfish, but is a chord.

While that seems a legitimate model for the “de-fragmentation” of a chord. It still leave us with the question understanding and characterizing the material that legitimately falls within the non-trivial duality area of the chord. It’s not as if string theory wasn’t weird enough in its own right. But this is where chord theory gets even stranger. The fundamental assertion is this: The non- trivial duality of any chord is defined by a shared set of harmonic resonances. I know that sounds like I want you to put on pastel robes and go chant at an airport. But I don’t. Really.

Let us deal with “harmonic resonances” first. It easier to define harmonic resonances by first defining what they are not. Harmonic resonances do not “express” the chord in the way that words “express” a thought or a picture “captures” a moment, or a poem “reflects” an emotional state. Those verbs are all “off center” descriptions of the actual state of being that defines a chord. That state of being is the one implied back in the 1st Movement of the Conjectural Symphony: So the vibration of a string – its “note” as it were — determines the nature of an elementary particle, and the way in which that particle interacts with other particles [notes]

forms a unit that has unique physical – and

musical – characteristics. Hence, all of the characteristics of the thing, from molecule to mountain, that is eventually constructed out

of these strings — size, shape, color, brick,

person, aardvark, stop-sign, flower — ALL

the characteristics, are determined by the rate of vibration of the strings. A star, a mouse, a baby, a stone, are all made up of vibrating

strings – the differences among those things

result from their strings vibrating at different rates creating different notes aligned on different scores. So to be part of a chord is to be comprised of notes – vibrating strings – that are harmonic

with all other parts of the non-trivial duality that is that chord. Those mutually harmonic notes are “harmonic resonances,” a set of notes that are not identical to, but resonate strongly with one and other.

For a very brief example let us return to my colleague Ken’s question about reconciliation – did I know of any pictures that had reconciliation as a theme? My discomfort with a study of pictures depicting reconciliation grows from my belief that the visual representation is just one of a cluster of entities that share the harmonics that are the “reconciliation chord.” Pictures, speeches, music, statues, poems, mathematical formulae, equations, dances all have string level identities. And those that fit into the chord that is “reconciliation” are all harmonic with one another. Put another way: To be part of a chord is to be harmonic with all the other parts of a chord.

Part of the difficulty in making that idea clear stems from the fact that the evolution of human thought and communication have led to the construction of concept and message categories that are without doubt flawed, and in some instances probably completely erroneous. But let us for a moment assume that “reconciliation” is a correct definition for a chord. Let us assert that under that defining term “reconciliation” can be clustered all the non-trivial dualities that relate to that concept and are mutually harmonic.

What that means is that the strings that define color, brush stroke, form and paint density in a painting that reflects the “reconciliation chord” are in physical, vibra- tional harmony with the strings that define tone, rhythm, and pitch in a musical composition that captures the “reconciliation chord.”

Furthermore, both

those entities, the picture and the musical composition, are in literal physical harmony with the state depicted by a mathematical formula related to the “reconciliation chord.” This concept obviously flies in the face of the time-honored assertion of the general semanticists that

“the word is not the thing, the map is not the territory.”

In the world of chord theory both the word and the map would be part of the chord. That is a hard sentence to write because I am still shackled by my old belief that there is a line that separates the representational from the actual. Yet, the exquisite symmetry of string theory would lead me to guess that if such a line does exist it is far more porous than we currently assume.

On the other hand, the mere presence of the elements of the message doesn’t do the job. I can stand in an art store surrounded by all the necessary elements to create a masterpiece. But until the artist shapes the masterpiece to materials lie mute. It is the way in which the artist aligns the inert notes of the material that creates the work that resides within the chord. Creating the work reconstructs the potential of the raw physical elements into a pattern that voices the notes of the physical elements that make up the painting – and the “talent” of the artist aligns the strings in the precise manner that creates this element of the chord. In chord theory a painting doesn’t look like something or represent something, its construction causes it to be something. Our “funnels of expertise” may lead us to call it a portrait or a landscape or an expressions study – but its very physical structure determines that on a chord level it is something that is harmonic with all the other

“somethings” that are part of that specific chord. Our task is to understand the entirety of the chord with which the work resonates.

“That picture speaks to me,” is a common enough phase, but is absurd if taken at face value. At a more revealing level the phrase can be seen as a verbal attempt to articulate the multi-sensory entity that we perceive but – unless you are willing to join me in the idea of the chord – have not named.

The idea of a broader perception of is nothing new. In Robert Heinlein’s Stranger in a Strange Land, he proposed a deeper Martian way of perceiving which he defined as “grokking.” And for a while in the late 1960s and early 1970s the wistful “I Grok” bumper sticker bloomed upon the vehicles of the counter culture. The attraction to grokking was that it was a nicely expressed alternative to uni-modal communication. But for us nonMartians attempting to expresses the essence of nontrivial dualities – to express chords in unimodal media is like trying to write in a mirror. We have been so thoroughly trained in unimodal expression that we are at a loss to discern what love tastes like or the shape of reconciliation. Unimodal communication is an artificial adaptation necessitated by our historical inability to create multimodal messages. Our dependence upon unimodal communication has in turn led to a distorted perception of the nature of the world, an issue dealt with in depth in the next improvisation on Communication. The problem with “grokking” as a deeper mode of perception was that there was no clear idea of what it was we should be trying to perceive. In those yearnings we sense the problem but can find no pragmatic solution. Martians may be whimsical literary mentors, but they don’t leave one with much of a feeling of real world confidence. Chord theory proposes that; at its most fundamental level of strings and at its most holistic level of chords, the universe – including birth, death, music, art, love, and God is understandable, perceivable and expressible. What I sense in a chord model of knowledge is the presence of a larger language of which we have been unaware. We have – in our expertise-based, unimodalexpression-dominated approach to the world and the universe – become amazing facile with fragmented words and phrases; sketches and arpeggios. Chord theory may point us to the language in which those bits and pieces find their broader intended meaning.

Certainly we bring a great deal of individuality to that process of understanding the deeper meaning of this new language. Each one of us is, after all, unique in the universe. But the allure of chord theory is the assertion that while we are unique, we are not alone. We are part of far-reaching and powerful chords that can both motivate and affirm us. But we are children in this language of the universe, bright children, certainly, but children still, barely past babbling.

So the vibration of a string – its “note” as it were —

determines the nature of an elementary particle, and the way in which that particle interacts with other particles

[notes] forms a unit that has unique physical – and musical – characteristics. Hence, all of the characteristics of the thing, from molecule to mountain, that is eventually constructed out of these strings — size, shape, color, brick, person, aardvark, stop-sign, flower — ALL the characteristics, are determined by the rate of vibration of the strings. A star, a mouse, a baby, a stone, are all made up of vibrating strings – the differences among those things result from their strings vibrating at different rates creating different notes aligned on different scores.

11

Chapter

Improvisation #2: The

Chord of Communication

And the Lord said, “Behold, they are one

people, and they all have one language; and

this is only the beginning of what they will do; and nothing that they propose to do will now

be impossible for them. Come, let us go down,

and there confuse their language, that they

may not understand one another’s speech.”

Genesis 11, 6-7.

And so, according to Genesis, God reached down and garbled human speech to prevent us from building a tower that would reach all the way to the heavens – a Tower of Babel. It is an intriguing supposition; that

“nothing they propose to do will now be impossible to them,” that given mutually comprehensible communication systems the potential of mankind is limitless, that a human society with seamless, effective communication could presume to challenge God for supremacy in the universe.

In many ways an assertion that beatifies communication is

a

necessary

corollary

to

the

Theory

of

Everything. Understanding the way everything works is meaningless if you cannot communicate that insight to others. Any thought, feeling, insight, or emotion borders on meaningless if it lies silent. It is impotent knowledge. For humanity to competently chart even its own future, let alone that of the cosmos, we must find far more effective ways to reveal the symphony of meaning, feeling, sight and insight locked within our individual minds,

hearts

and

souls.

We

must

learn

to

communicate.

I know, I know, we live in the Information Age. We are rarely out of reach of “communication”. I can sit in my office and, with a few keys strokes, email a colleague or group of colleagues around the world. If I leave my Instant Messenger turned on my daughters and a few selected friends can pop a message directly onto my computer screen and I can “chat” with them. My phone puts voice contact at my fingertips. Cellular technology allows us to slip that fingertip of talk into our pockets, purses, backpacks and briefcases and chatter our way into cars, boats; into private spaces and public places. Our PDAs bring email, calendars, and messages from the boss along for the ride. Surely I jest when I suggest we, as 21st century critters, need to learn to communicate. No, I am quite serious. The tools I have just mentioned are information tools. They allow us to send information to one another. The exchange of information is only one small fragment in the processes of communica- tion. And the challenge of communicating chords adds several new concerns to an already imperfect process. This is the longest of the improvisations. That makes sense – I have been teaching communication for more than 20 years. I have been thinking about this stuff for a long time. It was my unease with some of the assertions of my own discipline that seduced me into this entire undertaking. In this improvisation on communication I explore humanity’s rise from silence to communication, our frustrating descent into babble, and the emerging possibility of far richer and more meaningful human expression and communication. To begin at the beginning, we were mute. It is a misty morning a handful of millennia ago. One of our early ancestors makes her way along a path beside a river that wanders along a valley cut between two mountain ranges. She moves with great caution. This path was worn by the hooves and pads of quadrupeds far larger and more ferocious than her small and unassuming bipedal self. More than one of her clan have ended up an afternoon snack for the carnivores; she has no desire to do likewise. Hearing the staccato beat of hooves on the trail behind her, she scampers quickly up into the branches of a tall trees – a world from which her kind had recently descended. She is still quite comfortable in these leafy avenues. Several small deer-like creatures flee along the path below her.

They are warning

creatures; animals whose acute senses serve as sentinels for all wise enough to observe them. Even as she turns her head to seek the cause of their unease, an unbearable roar fills the heavens. For an instant she believes herself threatened by one of the flash floods that often scour the valley between the mountains; but then a fireball of painful intensity streaks overhead and slams into a mountain at the far end of the valley. A concussion —

part sensation, part sound — rocks the earth. And above the shattered peak a dense cloud of smoke and dust reaches toward the heavens bringing night to midday. A year before or after, or maybe ten or twenty or a hun- dred, a hunter makes his way along a narrow mountain trail somewhere else in the world. Ordinarily he would not have come this far from the clan’s cave alone. But the days have been getting cooler. Soon snow would sweep down from the northern mountains, sealing the clan into their narrow series of caves for long weeks at a time. There was not yet enough dried meat strung along the walls of the smoke cave to see them through the winter without hunger. The hunter hoped to find some prey to bring back, while avoiding the ferocious boars that often frequented these high paths and meadows. The boars themselves were large creatures – one alone could feed the clan for many days; but their tough hides seemed impervious to the points of the hunters’

sharpened saplings.

It was a slight sound that caused him to melt against the rocky wall, immobile, all senses alert. Over the past few days a smoldering fire had blackened the thickets below. The acrid odor of the charred wood masked the warning scents that should have drifted to him on the gentle breeze he had been careful to keep in his face. A dozen or two heartbeats later, he moved ever so slowly forward. The sound had peaked – a piteous wailing –

subsided, and then disappeared altogether. The hunter crept along the rocky path, until a movement in the charred undergrowth below again froze all movement. In almost imperceptible increments he made his way toward the movement. Soon a most amazing sight revealed itself. A boar, a truly gigantic boar lay dying below him. He could see where the path had given way beneath the weight of the creature, flinging it down into the thicket below. Two stakes had pierced the creature, whose thrashing had merely driven the stakes in deeper

– hastening the end.

The hunter scrambled down to the dead behemoth. One charred stick had passed all the way through the creature’s neck – undoubtedly the fatal wound. The hunter poked the creature with his sapling spear. It had no impact. Curious, he jabbed harder and harder to no avail. He looked closely at the fire-darkened spikes protruding from the dead boar. He reached out and touched one. It was hard, sharp, unyielding. His eyes widened in amazement and understanding.

Much time has passed and a shepherd chief sits look- ing over the flock of goats which has gathered by the river to drink after the long trek down from the winter pas- tures. His anger is poorly disguised. It is the same problem as last year. There are too few goats, and fewer still kids. During the harsh winter months when there is no feed for the goats they are turned out on the upland meadows to forage for themselves as they have done since time out of mind. In the spring those who have survived and the new kids are gathered and driven down back to the lowland hills where the can be milked and slaughtered providing milk and cheese, meat and hides, to feed and cloth the tribe. But this year again there are many goats missing, and this year again his suspicions fall on his avaricious neighbors. He had hoped when his eldest son had wed the daughter of the neighboring chief that the habitual theft would cease. He did not want to go to war again. The incessant raiding between the tribes did no one any good in the long run – but surely he had more goats than this last year. They had covered more space along the waterfront – hadn’t they? If only there was a way to be sure. As he sat by the river he tried to remember each goat – jabbing his finger into the clay in frustration: There was the one with the blind eye, the one with the torn ear, the ewe with the limp in the left hind leg. The ornery black one with the white leg that would never let you milk her, and there was the one who . . .

Suddenly he laughed aloud. His eyes had

dropped to where his finger had been busy with the clay

– a neat row of grouped holes lay exposed in the river bank, it was so obvious!

I have no way of really knowing if this is how it happened – the birth of the media which would, millennia later, become the communication industry and the information age, but it is probably as good a guess as any. In a series of unique or simultaneous discoveries, humanity moved beyond mute. I think of these moments as conceptual crystallizations, almost magical moments when the trivial dualities of a chord fade away and the nontrival duality is revealed. In those instances the chord is sensed with such clarity and power that a communicative imperative is created and the possessor of the conceptual crystallization is very nearly compelled to express the chord.

The young girl rushed back to her clan after witnessing the meteor’s destruction of the mountain. Think of what our reaction to such a traumatic event would have been. We who chatter ceaselessly among ourselves, into our cell phones, over our keyboards; in the face of sudden and devastating events would suddenly fall silent – we are struck speechless. We, for a few moments, become mute. Is it such a strange notion to believe that an individual whose customary state was muteness, might, in moments

of

overwhelming

emotion

be

struck

“speeched?” I have no doubt that such moments of high drama were one of the impulses that drove our forebears into the world of the first communication medium – speech. No doubt such an event could also spawn movements into other communication modalities – the young woman might well have taken a stick from the fire and scratched her depiction of the event onto the side of the cave – the dawn of drawing, the birth of art. The same can be surmised from the moment of sudden insight when the hunter realized that hardening sticks in the fire would allow the hunters to pierce the tough hide of the large but tasty boars. He might have molded a rough pig from clay along the river and then used sticks to show his kinfolk just how the hardened stakes had pierced the creature — sculpture is born. The chief sitting by the river finds a solution to the problem of whose goats are whose when he realizes that a mark can stand fo r a creature. Mathematics shakes its head and looks around.

We do not know exactly how these things came to pass of really knowing if speech was first, drawing second or whatever. We had no one present to observe and record the first efforts of these paleo-communicators. We don’t know if there was one “father of sculpture,” one “mother of speech.” We don’t know if our media sprang from one inspired moment or were the result of multiple simultaneous discoveries scattered around the globe. What we do know is that sometime in the past we moved out of silence we began our heady ascent into communication –

into the wonders of speech and literature and math and art and music. What we fail to realize is that the first ascent into communication also marked the first moment of our descent into mutually incomprehensible babble. The communicative imperative drawn from the conceptual crystallization may well have been driven by the perception of the nontrivial duality of the chord; but it was instantly translated into one of the trivial dualities

– one of the subordinate expressive modalities that would eventually become speech, writing, music and art. It wasn’t really anybody’s fault – but here is how the fractalization of human communication happened. When our paleo-communicators broke the bonds of muteness they did so in a world completely devoid of any communication technology. I have seen contemporary conversations die because nobody had a pencil or a piece of paper to sketch the necessary diagram. Imagine the communicative challenges presented by an entire world not only without pencils, but also without words. As we struggled to create particular media – speech, writing, music, painting, sculpture – for the expression of thought and feeling; we began to peel the chord common to those expressive modalities apart.

When confronted with the exploding peak, the dying boar, and the revolutionary marks in the riverbank our ancestors couldn’t pick and choose – as we can – from among a variety of robust communication systems, the one best suited for their particular communication situation. They either invented the system or built upon other rudimentary systems already in place. Eventually, speech became language and language became writing; writing became the printing press, which became the rotary press. Printing became typing, which became word processing, which became email and instant messaging. Crude drawings on cave walls, became intricate constructions on the same surfaces, which became refined pigments on parchment, and then oils and acrylics on canvas, watercolors on acid free paper, and then Photoshop™ and Illustrator™. Each medium entered into an evolutionary spiral that is “fractalesque” in nature. Most of us encounter fractals as visual patterns – frost on a window pane, ferns in the forest; Mandelbrot sets or Sierpinski triangles in math classes. They share the classical fractal characteristic of self-similarity. A small element, a curve, arc, triangle, crystal is continually replicated and magnified, until increasing replications of increasing size and complexity create visions that seem far more grand than the simple form from which the fractal is constructed.

There was a Sierpinski triangle here, but you’ll have to google it if you want to see one. It is quite lovely. However, the beauty of the fractal often blinds us to its significant limitation. The Sierpinski triangle can never contain a curve. Circles are forbidden in this construction as are all other shapes, forms or dimensions save the one-dimensional triangle; only it can be employed. Our communication media are similarly limited. If I wish to speak about or write about a feeling, event, or concept I am confined to words. If I choose music I am confined to notes. If I choose painting or drawing I am confined to shape, form and color in one-dimension. If I choose sculpture I am confined to shape, dimension and texture. T o choose any particular modality of expression is to deprive myself of all the others. And think what it is we wish to express. Think of the most amazing moments of your life. As I said in the 3rd Movement of the Conjectural Symphony:

Consider the intensity of your own existence.

Think of the moment you realized you were in

love, or the moment you realized that love had left. Think of the birth of a child, the death of a child. Think of the moment you sensed God,

or became convinced of the absence of a divine design. Think about the stories in the Prelude to this symphony. Hold that moment in your consciousness. Now decide. Was that a

verbal moment? A textual moment? A visual

moment? Olfactory? Tactile? Or was it all of

those – simultaneously?

It was, I would contend all of those modalities simultaneously. Just as the explosion of the mountain peak so overwhelmed the lonely observer that she made the magical leap into communication – the overwhelming moments of our life are inherently multimodal; they are comprised of expressive and perceptual impulses that involve all our senses simultaneously. They are conceptual crystallizations that encompass the nontrivial duality of a particular chord – they are by their very nature beyond expression in any single communicative modality. We have chosen to live in a fractalized, diminished communication environment for a couple of reasons. First is the relationship between the symbol systems and languages that have grown up in conjunction with various communication

systems;

and

the

various

“containers” that can hold those languages and symbols. The use of words to represent things, thoughts and feelings in the world has split into two broad container categories. The spoken word has found its home in a variety of audio containers. Words moving through the air between people were captured electronically and funneled through wires in early telephone systems. Radio and later cellular technology allowed the spoken word to be carried and received by a whole new range of containers. The written word found its home in a different set of writing or printing containers. From papyrus to parchment to linen rag based paper the written word has been contained in scrolls, books, newspapers, broadsides and pamphlets. Painting is contained in one-dimensional environments that range widely is size and material – but it remains a static one-dimensional container. Music, like the spoken word, is carried exclusively via vibrations striking the eardrum. Radio waves, wires, vinyl disks and cylinders, magnetic tape, CDs and MP3s have all be used to contain music and release it back into the air so it can strike the eardrum. The important point is that communication media tend to be biased in favor of one particular symbol system. And each medium seems to favor one note in the broad chord – subverting or eliminating those other modalities that are equally vital notes in the chord.

Go back to the drawing you made of the ice-cream cones dissecting the starfish. Let us say we are trying to express one of those intense moments in our lives – the loss of a parent perhaps. In this example let the fragmented chord represent the various ways in which we might want to express our memories of a deceased parent. If node one represents the written word, then I might study the great written eulogies of the past in order to craft one worthy of my parent. Node two could be the spoken word, in that node the skill of presentation and appropriate style reflected in spoken eulogies would have to be considered; node three is music, node four painting, node five is sculpture. Each has a long and complex history in the use of the node’s communication modality in the general area of human communication and in the particular area of eulogies. I am suddenly overwhelmed by the complexity of the task confronting me and by the absence of an intellectual tradition that focuses on unified human expression. This personal and cultural ignorance of multimodal expression is the primary reason that we opt to express our deepest feelings in one modality. We choose the spoken word or the written word or a painting or a piece of music or a dance or a sculpture.

Always or s; rarely and s.

Choosing one

medium or another lets me place my perceptions and my assertions about, and reflections upon, my parent in the container best suited to that mode of expression, but in no other.

Chord theory – and common sense — asserts that this fragmentation of human communication does significant damage to human expression, knowledge, and under- standing. I have not pulled this example of a eulogy for a parent out of thin air. Rather, I am drawn to the notion because I have often thought about how my mother’s memorial service did and did not capture the chord of that quiet, gentle, very remarkable woman.

I sit here with the little memorial booklet in my hands

– eleven sheets of paper held together by a single staple in the upper left-hand corner. No frills, no ribbons, no curlicues. That is good. Mom found any sort of pretense or ostentation distasteful in others, and was downright embarrassed if she ever found herself guilty of such thoughts or behaviors. But, of course, the deeper meaning of the booklet is carried inside where the print contains the words used by friends and family to memorialize her life. Reading them remains a very emotional experience, and I feel a renewed sense of gratitude to my sister, Margaret, who did the very Margaret-like thing of making sure that everything that was said got into the booklet. I want to share what I said at that memorial service with you because, even though I didn’t know it eight years ago, I am talking about chord theory:

“As I listen to this memorial service, I cannot help but hear the echo of another – my brother Jim’s. Since Jim’s death he has been an angel on my shoulder, gently reminding me of

the ethical imperatives that must guide a life. It’s funny but a lot of those reminders sound a lot like a harmonica.

Well, Jim has a partner now, and Mom

brought the piano along to round out the

band. So try to hear that accompaniment as I

read this short piece for the angels on my

shoulders:

In the rising of the sun and in its going down, we remember them.

In the blowing of the wind and in the chill of winter, we remember them.

In the opening of the buds and in the rebirth

of spring, we remember them.

In the blueness of the sky and in the warmth

of summer, we remember them.

In the rustling of the leaves and in the beauty of autumn, we remember them.

In the beginning of the year and when it ends, we remember them.

When we are weary and in need of strength,

we remember them.

When we are lost and sick at heart, we remember them. When we have joys we yearn to share, we

remember them.

So long as we live, they too shall live, for they are now a part of us,

As we remember them.”

I now realize that the point I was trying to make was that my mother’s life and my memories of her simply cannot be contained in one container, cannot be expressed in one modality. Her particular chord is constructed of notes that are drawn from every mode of human expression. Certainly part of that chord is expressed in the words contained in the delightful novels from the early 1900s left over from her girlhood days and now entwined with my own chord. But part of my mother’s chord also sounds in the aroma of baking cinnamon rolls and the pungent smell of the Noxema she used to rub on the recurring sunburns of my carefree childhood. Part of my mother’s chord sounds in the flickering of candlelight, in the warmth of candle wax peeled from the sides of tall tapers, molded into whimsical shapes and fed slowly into the flame again. Part of my mother’s chord sounds in the smell of oranges studded with cloves, in the feel of moist air blowing across the screen porch, in the memory of her voice as she read to us there on rain swept summer evenings. Part of my mother’s chord sounds in the music from the old piano – so stubborn under my fingers, and yet so melodic under hers –

as she played and sang; teaching us old songs that none of the other kids ever knew. Part of my mother’s chord sounds in the faint memory of her rubbing my five or six year old knees the throbbing of which – like my own daughter’s decades later – would keep me from sleep. There is no single mode of expression that can convey the totality of the chord that was my mother’s life. And to use one mode in the attempt distorts reality and blinds us to the full richness and variety of human life and expression. To use one communication mode to express any dominant chord distorts reality and ignores more of the chord than it expresses. To return to the language of chord theory; to select a single modality is to select a trivial duality – water, but not ice; ice; but not water; steam, but neither water nor ice.

Why do we do it?

Why do we systematically subject our communication to such mutilation? Historically there are three reasons: necessity, habit and convenience.

Necessity. This takes us back to the original communicators stunned or coaxed “speeched” who made that first awesome leap into symbolic interaction – those folks who used words or images to stand for something else. They had relatively few “containers” for their symbols. The air carried their first halting verbalizations. A clay slab, a cave wall, an animal skin scraped clean; these were their containers for symbols. Reeds cut to length and tied together, gourds filled with seeds, a hollow log struck with sticks. These were their containers for music. Mud shaped and baked in coals, stones laboriously ground or chiseled with harder stones. These were their containers for sculpture. Creating a message of any kind in each modality was incredibly labor intensive, and required a set of skills that did not translate easily into the other modalities. So communicators – of necessity – became specialists. As media users became specialists they shaped their tools and their language for greater and greater efficiency in their modality. Language became the dominant modality grouped into two large overlapping families: the written or printed word, and the spoken word. This mode was the one that came to define literacy in human society. Reading and writing became the tools necessary for power and success. Parents would make great sacrifices so that their children could acquire these skills. Painting, music, sculpture, mathematical formulae, et al., became more specialized modalities with their own tools and languages. And each continued to evolve along the particular nodes reflected in the starfish figure.

Habit. It was during these millennia of containermandated specialization that various modes of communication became habitual. Since reading and writing and speaking became the dominant modalities, those that defined literacy, they were the ones we habitually employed to express most of our lives. We came to habitually translate all experience into speech or writing. It was common sense to do so. The tools for writing became refined and widely available. In America our cultural heroes are often linked to the ways in which they acquired and used language. We call our signature our

“John Hancock” because we have all been taught how Hancock signed the Declaration of Independence in letters large enough for “the King to read without his spectacles.” We learn that Abe Lincoln wrote “his sums by firelight with charcoal on the back of a shovel.” In the mythical American western the “schoolmarm” is as common as the gunslinger; but she brought reading and writing – literacy. The other modes – art, music, sculpture, etc., — became specialized forms of communication reserved for specialized functions, often requiring training beyond “the three Rs”: Reading, ‘riting, and

‘rithmetic.

Convenience. The fact that certain modes of communication became dominant caused entire industries to grow up around those modes of communication – further cementing the idea of their naturalness and appropriateness. The cultural convenience of these pervasive communication systems and industries subtly asserts their ability to encompass human expression. Consider our own culture. As I write this particular improvisation

[and yes, I am aware of the irony inherent in the fact that I am writing it] I am sitting in the coffee shop of a posh Whole Foods market in my neighborhood. I write here because the coffee is good, and because I can plug in my laptop computer. The word processing program I am using allows me to select a wide variety of fonts, lets me magnify the page to read easily, assists me with spelling and punctuation.

The computer and the software

combine to form an amazing writing tool that makes it wonderfully convenient to write.

In the next booth a young couple are chatting and laughing. A little while ago the young man got a call on his cell phone. “Hi Steve,” he said, “yeah, I saw it was a long distance call – that’s why I picked up.” The young woman waited for a minute or two while her date chatted with Steve and then she pulled out her cell phone and called someone named Jane. They began to discuss homework. No, I am not blatantly eavesdropping on these people. Part of the evolving cell phone culture apparently makes it OK to talk on your phone in something other than “your indoor voice,” even if you are in a public place and even if you are discussing highly personal matters. The point is that huge industries have grown up around the communication systems we acquired from ancient necessity and use out of habit. Those industries make those modes of communication amazingly convenient and further assure they will remain our communication choices. And why is that a bad thing? It is a bad thing because as I said before, selecting one mode of expression eliminates – by necessity – the majority of the notes in any chord. Consider my mother’s memorial – the reading I chose is wonderful, it comforts me when I think about my mother. But it misses huge portions of her life. We consistently fail to recognize that expressions construct in a single modality are sorely flawed. Two things tend to prevent us from recognizing that inherent flaw: the deception

of

genius

and

the

loss

of

multimodal

consciousness.

The deception of genius grows out of our unimodal communicative history. The “one mode – one container”

paradigm encourage intense specialization by those whose lives centered on human expression. Hence, the deception of genius is often most obvious in the arts. It struck me perhaps most powerfully during the Rodin exhibit I described in the 4th Movement of the Anticipatory Symphony. I now realize that I was not undone by the fact that Rodin possessed a level of technical skill beyond my imagining. It was more than that. I was completely mystified by the synesthesia of the experience. Just looking at Fallen Angels triggered a cascade of sensations that had nothing to do with “looking” or seeing. Some days when I looked at it I could hear the memory of wind rushing around their wings, I could feel the magic of the updraft across the tops of the wings creating the alchemy of flight. Other days their sensuous curves telegraphed the subtle slide of soft skin to my tingling fingertips; at the close of the exhibit I cursed the cowardice that denied me a stolen touch, a single tracing to confirm the solidness of those ethereal forms. Another visit and I would hear the soft echo of voices sweet and caressing beyond the capability of mundane human speech.

The aspect of Rodin’s sculpture that truly staggered me was the fact that a work in a single modality could sound a myriad of notes in a stunning facsimile of a true multimodal expression. But Rodin was a genius –the quintessentially rare exception, anything but the rule. The deception of genius tricks us into believing that one modality capturing an entire chord is normal, logical, expected – because Rodin, Shakespeare, and Dickenson can do it. But once we re-acknowledge the profound scarcity of genius we are able to deconstruct its deception. We return to the comforting realization that a chord is multimodal and we need not find fault with ourselves simply because we fail to recreate it with a single sonnet or painting or sculpture. Only genius can convey the totality of the chord in a unimodal expression. We should certainly savor genius – but we should not be cowed by it, or embarrassed to find it lacking in ourselves

There is, however, another problem that is not so easily dismissed: the loss of multimodal consciousness. It has been, by even conservative estimates, tens of thousands of years since our move out of muteness. And with every turning of the moon we have become more expressive specialists. Poets tug ever more insistently upon our heartstrings. Painters refine their vocabulary of the eye. Scientists prod the very edges of universe with their incisive symbols.

Musicians layer sound over

sound coaxing complex compositions from instruments both traditional and electrically enhanced. Like the spiraling arms of a galaxy, our modes of communication sweep out from the point of their mutual birth tracing disparate arcs that are threatened once again by mutual incomprehensibility.

The point is this – it has been so long since we didn’t fragment our perceptions of the world into “word events”

or “picture events” or “math events” or “music events” or

“taste events” or “touch events” or “whatever events”

that I am quite doubtful that we have any idea of how to think – forgive me – outside the perceptual box. Unimodal or at best duomodal perceptual pigeon-holing has been the norm for so long I am not sure how we go about reclaiming the multimodal conceptualization that preceded speech and is demanded by chord theory. I am trying to teach myself to recapture that conceptual ability. I have a game that I play as often as I can. I call it “No Words.” I play it most often in the side yard at twilight. Once, I believe in the 1950s, the yard was designated “Yard of the Month.” No mean accomplishment in a city filled with polite, but intensely competitive Southern gardeners. My landlady and her husband had a separate well just to water the plants. He is long deceased and she, at 89, is no longer able to lavish such care upon the grounds. But much of its former beauty remains; gently faded but still alluring in it soft slide into wildness. I sit as quietly as I can, listening, watching, feeling, as the sun slowly sets. The garden comes alive with birds and squirrels, rabbits and bumblebees. Wind sighs through immense oaks. The intense warm moistness of a southern night settles around me – but I must not put it into words.

The idea is to reacquaint myself with the other notes in the chord. As an academician I am more damaged by fealty to one mode than most people. Only words are valued in my world. To express yourself in other modes is often heresy and must be defended. But people are all similarly conditioned, perhaps just to a lesser degree than college professors. At ever-younger ages we seek to introduce our children to this human wonder called language. Baby flash cards, ideally in several languages, are now seen as necessities in the well-stocked nursery. I read to my children every night of their lives from the time they came home from the hospital until they claimed their heritage and took their own, much longer, books to bed. Those are not bad things in themselves. Language — written and spoken – is a wonderful expressive mode; and vital to success in the contemporary world. But language is only one modality, and if all we give our children are words we deny them access to the rest of the chord.

My “No Words” game is my attempt to force myself to see beyond the part of the chord – to try to reactivate those ancient awarenesses that accompanied the young woman beneath the exploding mountain; that crept with the hunter approaching the dying boar. I use the game to try to touch again those parts of the chord that have been sheared away by necessity, habit and convenience. The game explores my earlier assertion that the synesthete may have an advantage – that pain having color, and color having a smell aren’t the result of crossed wires, but of bridges left unburned.

It is my guess that if you went back and studied ritual in ancient cultures or even rituals in those extant cultures we define as “primitive” we would discover evidence of a multimodal approach to the definition and explanation of the cosmos. And I would further assert that that evidence would not be there because they had

“discovered” chord theory and attempted to employ it. Rather, the existence of ancient or primitive multimodal artifacts indicate a culture less removed in time or communicative fragmentation

from

the

multimodal

perceptual-conceptual state that existed prior to language, prior to symbolic interaction. One need not look much further than the world’s contemporary religious rituals – replete with music, chanting, symbolic plants and fruits, incense, dictates of sunrise or sunset, the season of the year or the placement of the moon to realize that the earlier forms of these current rituals experienced and sought to explain the world and the universe far more holistically than we – we with all the

“advantages” of modern communication.

But the future of human communication doesn’t lie in returning to ancient communication technologies. We truly do live in the first era in human history where the full potential of multimodal communication can be realized. We live in the world of emerging containers. Until just a couple of decades ago we were still at the mercy of rather clumsy unimodal containers of communication. Written words appeared on paper – placed there by pen or pencil or typewriters. Spoken words were carried either by wires or recorded on audiotape or vinyl disks. Photocopying and printing allowed us to distribute some drawings, paintings and graphics. Photography allowed us to take pictures that could be displayed, placed in albums or be handed or mailed to others. Only with the birth of the home video camera did we see the first vague stirrings of personal multimodal communication devices. There were multimodal communication devices in the 19th and 20th centuries. Film and television are the obvious examples. But with the exception of a few devoted hobbyists, all multimodal communication was the product of groups of professional communicators disseminating information through expensive systems to meet corporate or organizational goals. TV networks and the film industry did begin to blend images and music, voice and occasional text – but only to bring the message of a powerful “one” to the attention of a relatively powerless

“many”. Even the home video camera was not a communication device as much as it was a simple recording device. Manipulating video and audio to create powerful focused messages remained complex and expensive procedures. Multimodal expression was becoming possible

– but for industries, not individuals.

That is why I believe that the dawn of the 21st century is a marvelous moment to savor. Not because of the amazing scope of the great communication conglomerates that dominate the communication industries; no, I am encouraged despite the continuing concentration of communicative clout into the hands of a powerful few. I am energized because of the new potential for intensely powerful and expressive personal human communication. The container that presents this potential for empowerment is the computer. I almost hate to use the word “computer” to describe the container. The digital communication environment that enchants me has little or nothing in common with those machines that dial our phone number for telemarketers or those PDAs that give us the illusion that we really can stuff 30 hours of life into a 24 hour day. The idea of digital convergence augers a communication environment where image, sound, text, even texture and smell can be housed, manipulated, accessed, distributed and revealed in one single container. It is this aspect of modern media that has the potential to completely reinvent human communication, reinvent it in a guise that bears a striking resemblance to the multimodal conceptual crystallizations that reflect the chords that actually define everything. In such an environment it is possible to construct expressions that do not merely reflect or express the Theory of Everything, but rather are natural manifestations of the Theory of Everything, expressions – to stand general semantics on its head –

where the word is the thing, where the map is the territory; where the expression is the chord because it shares the nontrivial duality of the chord.

But there is a problem. The problem is the tyranny of the software. The software is the container within the container. The capabilities of the container restrict the capabilities

of

the

communicator.

Consider

this

situation:

It is a couple of lifetimes ago. I am walking north along Laguna Beach in southern California. Much of southern California strikes me as hype and freeways, smog and pretension. But Laguna Beach is the real McCoy. It is everything the Beach Boys ever sang about, everything every landlocked kid from the Midwest ever dreamed about. But it is actually far more than that. The mystery of Laguna isn’t the hard bodies on the beach playing volleyball, it isn’t the surfers braving the chilly waters in their wetsuits and sculpted locks, it isn’t the casually elegant galleries with their quietly insightful and restful works nestled next to softly bubbling fountains and the obligatory chilled bottles of California Chardonnays. Those are all there and are, admittedly, quite easy on the eyes and the palate. But they are not the magical notes in the chord that is Laguna Beach. The magic lies elsewhere.

California beaches are very different from the gentle sloping beaches of the Carolina coast.

Here in the

Southeast the Gulf Stream strokes our beaches with thundering surf that is sometimes warmer than the air. The sand runs gently up long beaches to bungalows, mansions and hotels that look languidly out across the swells as if hurricanes never scoured this coast. At

Laguna the waters seem frigid even in summer. This was early Spring and I could not believe that these golden children in wetsuits would deliver themselves to the chilling surf. California surf slams the beach in the confident knowledge that it will soon overrun the narrow strip of beach that dares insert itself between sea and cliff.

I had walked along the beach toward the north end of town – heading for Las Brisas, the regal Mexican restaurant with the astounding view of the rest of the town and the beaches running off to the south. But long before I could make it to the genteel paths that wound among the restaurant’s cliff side gardens, the ocean asserted itself. I quickly began to retrace my steps back toward The Laguna Riviera where we were staying, hoping to beat the breakers back to the stairs that would deliver me to the comfort of our room.

The breakers won. I found myself scrambling up the side of one of the seaside cliffs in order to avoid a bone chilling bath. As I pulled myself up the rocks I found myself at eye level with a tide pool. A small crab was staring directly at me – eyes suspended above the waterline. At least I think she was staring at me. I have never been terribly certain about the placement of crab’s eyes – but I felt stared at.

It was as I hung there exchanging glances with a crab that the chord of Laguna sounded clearly. To the cliff side – the land side – ravens shrieked their dominance. Ravens, for those of you who have only encountered them in Poe’s poetry, are crows on steroids. They are huge assertive birds that play a significant role in the mythology of the indigenous people of the Northwest. According to one myth it was the Raven that brought the sun to humanity, allowing them to live and prosper. On the ocean side the gulls disputed the claim – they glided across the waves, patrolling the passage of their sea born brethren and contesting carrion with their iridescent, land-loving, kin. And all the while the tiny crab winked at me. “What do they know?” she seemed to say. What occurred to me at that moment was that I was suspended in a clear chord. If I were to follow the ravens inland for a thousand miles or so I would find myself in the middle of Iowa, or perhaps even South Dakota. There, miles of cornfields would unroll below me, green and uninterrupted. There would be utterly nothing of the ocean beneath our raven wings. But if I allowed myself to follow the gulls I would sweep out to sea, across uncounted miles of ocean and there would be no inkling of land below our wings. Even kelp, the grain of the depths, would be invisible beneath the rolling swells of mid-ocean. To follow either was to become lost in the particularity, in the trivial duality of existence. But here, clinging to a cliff, locked eye-to-eye with a tiny crab was the miracle of diversity. Here where land met ocean was a thin strip of life, tenacity, exuberance and exhilaration. What clearer definition, assertion, expression of the value of blending over isolation, of multimodality over the singularity?

“OK,” I said to myself, “How do take this back to the classroom? How do you share this moment with your students?”

I could do it. With a year or so of preparation time and a few hundred thousand dollars of grant money. But remember, this is my ballpark. I taught media production for much of my early career, I have spent much of my adult life writing, I have spent the last decade trying to stay current with the computer software that allows one to manipulate images, sound, text, and video. And it would still take me a year to recreate that one communicative crystallization in the digital environment because software is designed for and marketed to experts, professionals.

Software designers are not at all concerned with the ability of “normal people” to use their products to create multimodal expressions. Normal people are not their customers. Normal people will not pay a thousand dollars every year for the latest and greatest text/video/music/graphics/painting/illustration software. But professionals will. So software designers create products for professionals – for their most profitable marketplace. Where does that leave us, as people who want to use digital technology to express the multimodal nontrivial duality of the chords of our lives? Good question. Well, the upside is, as we have just noted, that after hundreds of thousands of years we finally have a communication medium that has the ability to contain, express and distribute multimodal human expression. That really is the potential of the of the digital communication environment. There are two significant obstacles to this

new world of expression:

1)

We no longer know how to think multimodally.

Our millennia of unimodal conceptualization and expression have left us damaged.

2)

The marketplace has encouraged the development of professional level software that is of little or no value to the “normal” human communicator.

These are not insurmountable obstacles. But we must make a conscious effort to address them. We can learn to think multimodally. We abandoned the process not because it was inefficient, but because we had no containers for multimodal expression. We had no tools for its creation or distribution. It was a chord without an instrument, so we opted to explore the communication potential of the instruments we did have. String theory has pointed the way to chord theory. Chord theory asserts that our world must be multimodal or we will miss the nontrivial dualities of existence. Hence the re-examination of multimodal perception is mandatory. But mandatory is irrelevant if that which seems perceptually and conceptually mandatory is expressively impossible. And prior to the dawning of digital convergence multimodal expression was impossible – unless you were a major media corporation. That is no longer the case. While it is true that most software developers are focusing on high end consumers with big bucks and creating programs that need years of experience to use effectively there is a small spot of light at the end of the tunnel.

I suppose it is not surprising that that small spot of light is shaped like an Apple. Steven Jobs – who I do not know from Adam, and who would not recognize me if I spit in his eye – seems on the verge of “getting it right.”

Apple computers have always been designed around the idea of communicative functionality and the company has refused to compromise on that issue – even when that lack of flexibility threatened the very existence of the company. The iMacs™ that entered the market early in 2002 honor that tradition. These machines heralded something far more innovative than their small desktop footprint, sleek design and cool flatscreen. They carried multimodal software that was accessible to users without advanced degrees in communication, design, engineering or computer science. Their iLife™ actually point toward blending, not isolating communication modalities. These tentative iMac™ offerings are certainly not all we need. Creating music is still ignored, and issues of three-dimensionality need to be addressed. But they are the first serious steps down a path that could eventually lead to a communication environment that provides the multimodal palette that could allow

“normal people” to create multimodal expressions that reflect the nontrivial dualities of the dominant chords in their lives.

12

Chapter

Improvisation #3: The In-

tersecting Notes of

Relationships

“Here comes the big one, relationships.

We all want ‘em, we all got ‘em.

What are we gonna do with ‘em? “

— Jimmy Buffet, Fruitcakes.

Human relationships should be immune to theoretical physics. The vibrations of tiny particles would seem totally alien to the joys and sorrows that flare and subside within the human heart. And yet making sense of relationships is an imperative test of a theory of everything. This is the center of the landscape of the heart that any theory of everything must address. A few inquisitive souls wake in the morning contemplating the workings of the universe – millions wake to the presence or the absence of another human heart and reflect upon the state of that heart in relationship to their own. A few inquisitive souls end each day by staring at the night stars and wondering about the nature, age, and ultimate decay of those celestial structures – millions end each day by stealing a last lingering glance at their sleeping children and praying for the wisdom to guide those precious charges along the path to a fulfilling future. A few inquisitive souls have access to the astronomical wonders of the age and peer through telescopes pointed toward the very center of the universe – millions seek that same vista in the eyes of another human being. Physics enchants the few, relationships beguile us all. It is clear from the assertions I made back in the second movement of the conjectural symphony that I believe that string theory provides chord theory with the insight, gleaned from the few, that is necessary to address the concerns of the millions: Greene says, “Every particle of matter and

every transmitter of force consists of a string whose

pattern

of

vibration

is

its

‘fingerprint.’ … every physical event, process or occurrence in the universe is, at its most

elemental level, describable in terms of forces acting between these elemental material constituents” (p. 146). So all the particles that make up your body, all the processes from the

beating of your heart to the firing of the neurons in your brain and body, to the rate at which you metabolize a veggie platter or a Big Mac – all manifest distinct vibrational patterns, notes, that come together in an awesome cacophony that is your chord, unique in all the universe.

Even more interesting and important is the fact that the unique chord that is you or me is actually a complex three-part construction that begins in biology, is molded by environment, and finds its final form in personal choice and free will. Three clusters of notes create this chord that is ours alone.

Those three clusters of notes were defined as follows:

The Biological or Signature Notes: We are made up of billions and billions of cells. Within each of those billions and billions of cells is our DNA –

countless copies in each cell, utterly unique to us, an undeniable signature of our family tree, it is our exclusive expression of the human genome. Each of those DNA strands within those billions of cells is playing our song

– ours alone. No other person, pebble or poodle in the universe assembles strings in quite the same way. We are, physically, a totally distinctive composition, and that physicality predetermines the first set of notes that make up our chord. We cannot change the notes we were born with, they will always sound in every cell in our body (p. 36).

The Environmental Notes:

The second cluster of notes in our chord is also an accident of birth. But these notes are not biological, they are environmental (p.36) … How does this environmental piece of the puzzle, this wrapping together of physicality and attitude impact our chord? Chord theory would assert that it attunes us to what “feels” right or wrong, it lays down deep inclinations regarding what we should seek and what we should avoid … Remember, Greene tells us that “every physical event, process or occurrence in the universe is, at its most elemental level, describable in terms of forces acting between these elemental material constituents,” between the vibrations of strings, between notes in the chord. There are physiological components to everything including those seemingly ephemeral elements of our life — attitudes and perceptions —

that have been heavily influenced by our environment. (p. 38).

And most important,

The Notes of the Unconquerable Soul: Out of the night that covers me,

Black as a pit from pole to pole,

I thank whatever gods may be,

For my unconquerable soul.

— To R. T. H. B.

William Ernest Henley

Again, from The Conjectural Symphony,

Having written those four lines, a person

could die happily – and fearlessly. They are a glorious affirmation of the ability of the human soul to pour sunshine into the darkest corners of existence. They also define that

third, vital, aspect of our unique chord – our role as the ultimate composer. Biology and

environment may draw the staff, may influence the key, may even advocate for certain sharps and flats, but ultimately we create the chord.

The insight that chord theory lends to human relationship is the realization that it is the intersection of one human chord with another that structures and defines the way we feel about one another and the ways in which we behave toward one another. This improvisation explores a few of those possible intersections.

Love

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

A middle-aged man sits with a cup of coffee and a crossword puzzle. He glances up and smiles to catch himself once again missing the blue eyes, sweet lips and slightly sardonic smile that should be there across the table. The pen drops to the pad beside the puzzle and scratches out these unbidden verses:

How deep and empty echo the caverns of my

heart.

The fire that clears the vessel does not burn

with the heat that felled the tree,

But eats slowly, differently, everyday.

Strange purging in your absence.

There are days when I am one with the wind

high in the pines,

A clarity, a freshness, bubbling with laughter and release.

I hold hands with God and am at peace.

Then the joy drains into the sands at my feet

Because there is no vessel to contain it.

I think of your sweet eyes and our moments of

joy.

But you are such a child,

Flinging away that which is rare past all understanding.

“It is an old love, he is an old love.

Surely my heart’s true desire waits beyond

the next horizon.”

And I am such an adult, Coaxed into cautiousness, Pacified by paternity. “She is a young love,

cruel and capricious.”

But no, my love and muse, as stunning as it

may seem,

We have already been loved as deeply as we

ever will be—by one another.

It is more important than your work It is

more important than my work

Because it is the end we both seek in our

labors.

It is not the understanding of the universe.

It is the reason for the universe.

It is the meaning you seek behind the snowflakes, It is the insight you configure upon your keyboard. It is the tranquility you pursue in the bowl of a pipe,

Or I at the bottom of a glass.

It is the music I seek in the next CD

The grace I pursue in stone and clay

It is the beauty I stalk before my lens

The wisdom we chase in these linguistic

flights.

It is truth. It is peace. It is God. It is love. It is us.

Pure resonant harmony

He reads it slowly to himself. “Not bad,” he mutters, returning his attention to 84 Across: a six-letter word meaning “One who chooses to be deceived” which may, or may not, begin with the letter R.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

It is either funny or sad that as a culture we have taken the definition of love away from the poets and given it into the hands of copywriters. “Love” is now something that we can bestow upon our new car or the Buffalo wings at the new restaurant downtown. But what used to be “being in love” is now “having a relationship.” “Making love” has become “having sex.” It is a perturbing change of which I strongly disapprove, this semantic shifting of love from a state of being to an act of possession. But it is strangely understandable if we consider the various ways in which people’s chords can intersect. The number of potential interactions between two chords, at varying degrees of intensity affected by the modulation of passion, can create a plethora of relationships – all different, yet each called love. It would be futile to even attempt to consider each of those interactions. But looking at even just a few may well prove interesting. Let us first consider the interactions between the primary note structures defined above: The signature notes interact to create the fundamental biological harmonic relationship between two people. The DNA and RNA singing in a billion voices throughout every cell in one body come into proximity with the billion voices singing in another body. A whole continuum of harmonic interactions is possible. Let us look at those interactions that fall at each end and the middle of that continuum.

Fortunately, most of our initial reactions to people fall around the center of the continuum. We are neither strongly attracted to nor repelled by the other’s signature notes. And without the benefit of further interaction we form no meaningful opinion. If someone asks us our impression we may well shrug our shoulders and say, “S/he’s fine, OK, I suppose. S/he’s nice enough.”

Those are manners speaking. We have been socialized to say blandly positive things about people of whom we have, truthfully, no opinion.

As we approach the ends of the continuum our reactions become more intense. I have a friend who asserts that some people are “just toxic” for her. She cannot be in the same room with them, simply hearing their voice causes her blood pressure to rise, if forced to stay in close proximity with them she begins to hyperventilate – flirting with an anxiety attack. OK, that may be a bit extreme, but we all have our own personal examples of

“toxic people.” There are people who makes us uncomfortable for no discernable reason – or at least for no defensible reason. I have noticed it while writing this book. As I have mentioned before I tend to write in cafes and coffee shops – happily clattering away on my laptop. For the most part the music and chatter that permeates these venues is good for me. It is innocuous noise that keeps me focused while simultaneously preventing me from falling down this strange rabbit hole of strings and chords while chasing a funny looking white bunny with a huge pocket watch. However, on occasion people sit in booths or at tables close to me who make me REALLY

uncomfortable. I try to ascertain what it is – are they talking too loud? Did they get a limburger cheese omelet? Neglect to bathe for a week or so? Fall into their perfume? Are they singing along with the muzak? Discussing the results of their latest physical on their cell phone? Sometimes I find something to blame it on, but many times it is a stretch.

I remember a particular morning when I was writing and a woman came in and sat down at the table next to my booth. She would have made a wonderful spy or serial killer; there was absolutely nothing remarkable about her. She could have slipped through any security system in the world because there was nothing to note. Average height, average weight, average hair color, average complexion, average clothes, drinking average coffee, reading an average paper – and she absolutely freaked me out! It was as though she was standing right next to me wearing her fingernails out on a chalkboard. I actually had to leave. I mean what could I do? I certainly couldn’t walk over and scream ”Get out of here! You are averaging me to death!” I had no desire to spend the next couple of weeks in a padded room.

My explanation is not, as my friend describes it,

“interpersonal toxicity.” Rather, I believe that this woman’s signature notes were exceptionally discordant with mine. We made terrible music together. The other end of the continuum is just as intense and worlds more pleasant. If you haven’t been there yet stay open to the experience. It makes life worth living.

You are standing there minding your own business. Perhaps you are having a drink with friends at the office holiday party, and a colleague wanders over and says

“Hi, I’d like you to meet my cousin Sergi or Natasha. S/he has just moved to the States – doesn’t speak a word of English, just say your name smile and shake hands.”

You look up into Sergi or Natashe’s soft green eyes and you suddenly realize you do not have the slightest idea what your name is. You chuckle, amused at yourself.

“Silly me,” you think. “I really do know my name. I’ve had it all my life – rather fond of it actually.” But you are unperturbed by this momentary bout of amnesia, it is utterly unimportant because in the next minute or two you and Sergi or Natasha are going to walk out the door together and drive to the airport. You will sweep up to the international terminal where, miraculously, there will be no security checks, just a waiter handing the two of you sleek crystal glasses of exquisite champagne. As you walk arm in arm to your Lear jet you notice how soft the night air is, and how bright the stars. It seems like only moments before you are descending into a small airport on a secluded South Sea island. Suddenly you are standing in the warm clear water at the edge of the lagoon. You take Sergi or Natasha into your arms and sink into the warm caressing sand still staring into those deep, deep green eyes … .

“Your name, tell him/her your name,” hisses your friend, as the holiday music drowns out the warm lullaby of the surf.

“Ah, yeah, yeah – my name! Let me just steal a quick look at my driver’s license and I’ll be right with you on that.” And you, my friend, are toast. You have just stumbled upon a set of signature notes that are in complete and total harmony with your own. You have only two choices – flight or surrender.

Signature notes interactions that hit around the ends of the continuum are very powerful. In many ways this reassertion of the physicality of our lives is refreshing. We live in an increasingly decentralized, deconstructed world in which we encounter other human beings through email, cell phones, and answering machine menus. It is nice to occasionally be reminded that we are still flesh and blood, creatures of passion and emotion. Still it is probably good that most signature note interactions seem to cluster more toward the center of the continuum and disrupt our lives with less vehemence than result from either extreme discord or total harmony.

However, a mitigating factor must be noted. Hormones. Maintaining the species demands babies, and hormones assure that process. I can clearly recall being a teenager. Every girl seemed to have Natasha-like qualities. The ticking of the “biological clock” in women nearing the end of their traditional child-bearing years has, I speculate, the same disorienting effect. If we are ever able to measure the structure of these notes and chords, I would hypothesize that young men just coming into their sexual maturity and women about to leave their reproductive years will both demonstrate a significant widening of signature note tolerance. Both will respond positively to a wider range of other signature notes. It may not be love, but it will feel like it. It will also, unfortunately, be transitory. The environmental notes.

A boy like that, who’d kill your brother,

Forget that boy, go find another.

One of your own kind, stick to your own kind.

— Stephen Sondheim, West Side

Story

Like its literary ancestor Romeo and Juliet, West Side Story argues the wisdom of seeking relationships – of falling in love – with “your own kind.” To do otherwise, according to Jet and Shark alike, invites disaster. Fid- dler on the Roof takes a less tragic route to a similar conclusion. After 25 years of working together for the good of their children and to scrape out an existence in antiSemitic Czarist Russia Golde and Tevye sing this duet: T: But my father and my mother said we'd

learn to love each other.

So now I'm asking Golde, Do you love me?

G: I'm your wife!

T: I know! But do you love me?

G: Do I love him? For twenty five years I've

cooked for him cleaned for

him, starved with him. Twenty five years my

bed is his. If that's not love

what is?

T: Then you love me?

G: I suppose I do.

T: And I suppose I love you too.

B: It doesn't change a thing, but even so, after twenty five years, It's nice

to know!

— Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick, Fid- dler on the Roof.

These environmental notes – the notes that groups and cultures come to agree are positive or negative – can be a powerful base for long term relationships. They are the foundation for all forms of arranged marriages. They are the basis upon which the group member is distinguished from the outsider. Relationships based on the harmonics that arise from shared environmental notes make sense according to chord theory.

Remember,

strings underlie everything. When we feel pleasure certain physiological changes take place in our body. Any number of social and cultural cues we can bring us pleasure. A Jew hearing Kol Nidre, a Christian hearing The First Noel, a Muslim hearing the call to daily prayer –

devout members of each faith probably experience a series of very similar emotional sensations.

On a

physiological level we could probably measure comparable manifestations of comfort, pleasure and anticipation. On a string level those physiological similarities result from strings vibrating at similar rates. According to chord theory those strings vibrating at similar rates are harmonic with one another.

But a Jew hearing the Muslim call to prayer, a Christian hearing Kol Nidre or a Muslim listening to The First Noel would be far less likely to experience the same sensations that accompany the music indigenous to their own faith. Environmental notes are those which our upbringing has conditioned us to respond to in specific ways. Any strong community – it can be religious, or political, or artistic, ethnic or national – creates chords that define “your own kind.” The locale, the music, the food, the design preferences, the clothing – all create a cultural pastiche of belonging that trigger “membership”

responses that illicit strong emotional and physical reactions that tune chords to close harmonies. Those harmonies go a long way toward creating a significant amount of interpersonal comfort. And in communities isolated by geography or culture it is easy to understand Golde’s perspective: “If that’s not love, what is?”

The notes of the unconquerable soul are the products of our own tuning. We cannot reconstruct our DNA, we had no choice regarding the family or culture into which we were born, but there comes a time in every person’s life when they must take the responsibility for their own chord, for the tuning of their soul. That tuning is a series of choices, a conscious process of believing and behaving; that marks the painstaking evolution into the person you must, and wish to, become. I assume that for some people the choices, beliefs and behaviors are clear and swiftly made. I, on the other hand, am still working at it. I am making decent progress – but have no inclination to declare victory. Tuning the notes of the unconquerable soul is a long-term thing. Finding a person whom closely mirrors your current tuning is a mystical experience. It defies planning. It grows unexpectedly out of trivial conversations, or as you both stand taken in by the same sunset or painting, reach for the same book, hum the same tune in an elevator. Somehow you find yourselves deep in conversation, shared perceptions leap to the fore, you like the same music, books, pastimes. You admire the same people, espouse the same ideas. And unlike our signature note companion, you are not obsessed with finding a deserted beach somewhere – you just want them to go on talking, and you want to keep talking to them. You want to show them your favorite movie, play your favorite music for them, take them to your favorite restaurant, you want to introduce them to your parents – or perhaps your children.

Strong resonance in any of the three note clusters of our personal chord can create harmonics that feel a lot like love. But love requires, I strongly suspect, harmonics across more than one primary note clusters. One note romances have given rise to a variety of common fallacies. Let us debunk a few: Opposites attract. I sincerely doubt it. Furthermore I suspect that this particular fallacy grows out of very strong resonances in the signature note portion of peoples’ chords – this is a Sergi and Natasha thing. Think about it – what kind of “opposite” are we talking about here? Usually we find that the “differences” are in the environmental notes, “We come from completely different worlds!” Or the “unconquerable soul” notes, “I have no idea what s/he sees in rock music/opera/fishing/ football/cooking/fill in the blank; it would make me crazy to do that all day.” But – and here is the attraction part

– “I just can’t stand to be without him/her.” There are harmonics at work here and all that is left to “attract”

the “opposites” is the signature notes – notes that sound at the DNA level. And remember “signature notes” are not code words for lust – hormones may look a lot like signature note harmonics, but signature note harmonics last all your life; the resonance lingers even when you are up there at the home at 97 in side-by-side rocking chairs.

Here is what I think happens to create the “opposites attract” fallacy. As I said immediately above, I believe that in this fallacy there is actually a strong attraction on the DNA/RNA level. This person to whom we are attracted is very much like us. The apparent “oppositeness” lies in the other two note clusters; the accident of birth or the choices made that result in the chord being tuned very differently than ours. The truth is we are fascinated by the “person we chose not to become,” intrigued by looking at a near mirror image of ourselves and seeing what else we could have been had we been born in different circumstance or made different choices. This “opposites attract” fallacy masks the narcissistic reality that we have fallen in love with a different version of ourselves. You will learn to love each other, or the Golde and Tevye fallacy. Just as unlikely as opposites attracting. This single note fallacy stems from the environmental cluster. Isolated or marginalized groups – people either set upon because of prejudice or isolated by privilege –

have often placed a very high value on marrying within the group.

The welfare of the group and the comfort

that comes with contributing to the group’s well being can create strong resonances in the environmental notes that may actually feel a lot like love. However, the sociological reality of this fallacy is that it supports a good coping mechanism for people who cannot escape their environment – so they choose to love it. It is; however, wise to remember that all of Golde and Tevye’s daughters chose not to marry the mate that “tradition”

would have selected for them.

S/he is perfect for me! This fallacy is the result of the notes of the unconquerable soul run amok. I once had a colleague tell me she had decided to become a lesbian for political reasons. I hope she never shared that little tidbit with any subsequent lovers or partners. The notion of being loved for political reasons seems a touch distant to me. And yet, we see it happen all the time, in both gay and straight society: The successful business person with the trophy spouse, the friend who can’t stop telling you about the latest accomplishments of their partner; the couple who just must tell you about that perfect little place in Tuscany, all reflect what happens when the conscious tuning of our individual chord overwhelms the signature and environmental notes. These are relationships grounded in a firm conviction of “who I should be,”

a conviction that may have lost touch with the other note clusters – who I am and where I came from.

I suspect that people who are fortunate enough to stay in love for all of their lives possess chords that are har- monic in at least two, and possibly all three of the primary note clusters. Harmony in the environmental note cluster is the optional cluster which adds a degree of cultural comfort. It is simply easier, from a relationship perspective, to share holidays, cuisine, and music. Certainly, one can fall deeply in love with someone from far away; learning to savor roasted grasshoppers and the local brew while observing the festivities of a ritual whose name you have trouble pronouncing. But if you were born and raised in Hoboken, Springfield or Centerville it is far more likely that you will settle down with someone who shares your cuisine and culture. However, if all you share is burgers, Bud, and the Super Bowl then you might want to rethink that fascinating person with the roasted grasshoppers. The environmental harmony is comfortable, but to truly cherish an- other human being for a lifetime resonance between the signature notes and the notes of the unconquerable soul is mandatory.

Strong resonance between the notes of the signature chord means that not caring is not an option. Relationships die more often than they are murdered. Indifference is lethal to a relationship. When people lose interest in the other, when they seek new challenges, when they grow out of their hormonal surges – when the childhood notes of the environmental chord or the “choose-able”

notes of the unconquerable soul shift significantly — the relationship can die.

The sheer physical attractive

power of two chords that resonant on the DNA/RNA signature note level inoculates that particular couple against indifference. The physical reality of what they are – the vibrations of their essential particles, the music of their strings — mandates a continuing interest in the other. That type of “connectedness” underlies a myriad of love songs. As I write this I am listening to a wonderful CD called Rabbit Songs by HEM. A Steve Curtis song on the CD called Night Like a River contains a celebration of that connectedness: “I could live a long, long time on the sweetness of her breath.” That is the age-old notion that love of the pure physicality of your lover will sustain you. But even that intense resonance of signature notes clusters alone, as we noted above, is no guarantee that love will last. The connection will remain, but the notes of the unconquerable soul determine the nature of that connection.

There comes a point in time when we choose a life. I don’t mean choose a job, an occupation or a location. Those are the decisions we make that allow us to live; to obtain shelter, food, to gain the approval of our parents, our partner and our peers. Those choices may overlap with the choosing of a life – but they are not the same thing. Choosing a life is not earning a living, it is realiz- ing why you are alive. In the film Dead Poet’s Society the teacher tells his students, “Medicine, law, business and engineering; these are noble pursuits, and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love –

these are what we stay alive for!” That is what I mean by choosing a life.

Choosing a life and acting on that choice is the expres- sion of the notes of the unconquerable soul. It is the manifestation of your full chord. It is something that requires a good deal of exploration in a life, or a delightful stroke of youthful insight. It took me fifty some years to realize that creative expression; writing, painting, sculpting, music – used in the pursuit of understanding the nature of life and the universe; were far more important to me than publishing another article in an academic journal or seeking a career in academic administration. I wish I had come to the realization sooner, but the power of the environmental chord had kept me fairly focused on the traditional academic career path that I had chosen as a young man. On the other hand, I have a young friend who has known since her teens that she needed to write. It was a life she chose very early. She has been distracted by the normal turmoil of youth and the vacillations of a tempestuous heart, but through it all she has never strayed terribly far from that choice and is now making it a successful reality.

The point is that you cannot remain in love with someone whose unconquerable soul notes are discordant with your own. You must choose compatible scores for the symphony of a mutual life. And choose is the important issue. Your signature notes may lead you to love someone very, very deeply. But if the life you choose leads you to the desert, while your lover’s choices demand the ocean; even the strongest harmony of the signature notes will be drowned in the discordant clash of unconquerable souls. The solution is not to live in Iowa, where you both will slowly die. If there is a solution it lies in the composition of a mutually fulfilling symphony that encompasses the unconquerable notes of both souls. Sometimes there just is no solution.

This examination of how and why we come to love, or not love, leads me to some further reflections on some fallacies that can arise from the intersections of these multiple sets of notes – no doubt you have your own. Here are mine.

The younger woman fallacy: As a divorced man in his 50s with two daughters in their late teens or early twenties, and a 30-year marriage behind him, I find myself in an interesting situation. People make strange assumptions about my life. When my wife and I separated, I wrote a blanket sort of email to a variety of friends and colleagues telling them about the shift in my situation. One colleague responded with just one sentence:

“Mothers lock up your daughters; they’re letting another one loose!”

It was a classic verbalization of the younger woman fallacy: The assumption that is seemingly invariably made when a middle-aged man separates from a similarly aged wife is that the man is focused on luring some nubile young thing into his bed. I realize that happens. Marriages fracture for a lot of different reasons, and the strain can certainly manifest itself in a chilling of sexual relations. Once the marriage is declared over, one or both partners might well seek some solace in a comforting sexual relationship that not only releases built up tension, but also reaffirms one’s bruised feelings of desirability and worth. That logic, and the observable fact that older single men do seem to spend a lot of time with younger women, supports the younger woman fallacy. But it is a fallacy – mostly.

For any fallacy to survive it needs to have certain truthful elements imbedded in it. And the truth is that many older men spend time with younger women. The fallacy is that the attraction is primarily erotic. As with any love relationship, the harmony of the signature notes must be there for the relationship to have any chance of survival. And the signature notes are chronology blind. But I strongly suspect that the attraction between older men and younger women has more to do with harmonics in the unconquerable soul arena. Let me admit right up front that I am basing a lot of this discussion of the younger woman fallacy on my own experiences over the last couple of years. However, I have had my biases somewhat confirmed by a growing number of both men and women with whom I have discussed the issue. Here is the general scenario: By the time a man is middle-aged old he has defined and lived a career. The patriarchy, while undeniably conveying a wealth of social and economic benefits upon men, also saddles them with the belief that they must be the bread-winner, bring home the bacon, put food on the table – chose your own hackneyed culinary metaphor. The point is you work for a living. At the same time in the world in which many middle-aged people grew up, many women had spent their lives working in the home. They were doing their own 70 or 80 hour weeks raising the kids, keeping the place clean, a whole bunch of stuff. Then the marriage goes kaflooey. The reason that the marriage ended is only important to the people involved, and they probably disagree. For the middle-aged guy, the questions that often arise after the break-up don’t focus on getting laid. He is a long way past the tyranny of hormones. Much more germane to his repairing his life are the questions of what he has been doing for the past 20 or 30 years? And what does that activity have to do with his life – with the life he now wishes to choose? This classic mid-life crisis has little to do with sex – but it has a whole lot to do with choosing a life that may not necessarily revolve around pleasing a boss and bringing home an ever-increasing pay check.

And this where the truth of the younger woman enters the equation. Many of the single middle-aged women that a single middle-aged man meets are also coming out of fractured relationships with some other middle-aged man. They are often hurt, angry and suspicious – of middle-aged men. Maybe it is just me, but that doesn’t sound like the recipe for a nice, soothing evening, let alone a relationship. More importantly many newlysingle middle-aged women are intensely focused on making their own mark in a world that was traditionally closed to them; business and the professions. They are ready to go out and conquer the world. Again, this may just be me, but I already gave at the office – for 30 years. I am just not interested in spending my time discussing strategies for climbing the career ladder. I am not blind, coincidentally, to the fact that my disinterest can be infuriating to women who are my chronological peers. Their common complaints about middleaged men: He doesn’t do anything around the house. He doesn’t seem to care about moving ahead at the office. He seems bored with everything I am interested in; are, like the younger woman fallacy, based in a kernel of truth. And that kernel of truth is that for men my age getting on with life doesn’t always mean doing more of the same. I am not asserting that fifty-something women always misunderstand fifty-something men; rather I am asserting that the issues that affect the tuning of the individual chord are different for men and women of the same age. That difference can, in relationships that lack strong resonance among the signature and unconquerable soul notes, cause the relationship to crumble. My life causes me to observe it in my generation; you are obviously a better judge of yours.

Some younger women are just more compatible with older men. First, they have lived in the world that their mothers and older sisters fought for. That is not to say that sexism has vanished; but I can honestly say that neither of my daughters believes that they are in anyway limited by their gender. When only six, my older daughter declared that she was going to be president. Nothing she has done in the past 14 years appears to have dimmed that ambition; but she now seems to want to save the world before running the country. That’s OK. My younger daughter hasn’t yet decided what she is going to do – but as she sees it her problem isn’t too few options, it is too many worlds to conquer. Into that empowered perspective of the world come some younger women who, in the full awareness that the competitive world designed by the patriarchy is now much more open to them, decide they don’t really want to have anything to do with it. Instead, they bring a curious blend of energy and gentleness to understanding and interpreting the world around them. They want to explore joy, and beauty – to understand why we are here and what we should do while we are here. They are happy, excited, secure and comfortable. That is the attraction that some younger women have for some older men. But, again maybe that is just me.

Oh, and I need to add that it isn’t a generation specific thing. A 70 year-old man who is comfortable with the life he has chosen and followed since that mid-life crisis he had way back twenty years ago, would probably be totally smitten with that 50-something divorcee who is shaking them up so much at his old office. The 30 yearold woman may find the 50 year-old man who has fallen in love with Bonsai trees a wonderful change from her age-mates who are a bit obsessed with their pecs and stock portfolios. I suspect that there is a natural harmony between some older men and some younger women, regardless of the relative ages. It is only relatively recently – in the great scheme of things – that folks married their age mates. In many older cultures there was a much greater age disparity between husbands and wives. Maybe they knew what they were doing. I would hasten to point out that this model for a May-September relationship can work across genders the other way as well. Older women may be drawn to younger men for many of the same reasons. The issue isn't gender, or age; it is supportive harmonics.

Friendship

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

I wasn’t really nervous – more curious I guess. It had been almost a quarter of a century since I had spent any length of time with Dan, and that was a strange thing in its own right. We had, after all, been born six days apart when our parents occupied two sides of a duplex perched on an unassuming lot close to the college campus where our fathers taught. We had been raised more like brothers than neighbors. Even when our families moved on to separate, more spacious homes; we were never more than a short bike ride apart. Our only lengthy separations while growing up had been a couple of overseas jaunts while our fathers worked in Europe and South America.

Other than that we had remained “best

friends,” linked by uncanny similarities. We, independent of discussion, chose to attend the same small private college in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The college’s computer made us roommates based upon our “compatibility profiles.”

He pursued a degree in English Literature; I

studied Theatre. Before graduation we both married the girls we had dated in high school. We both had two kids, the older serious, focused, responsible; the younger more free-spirited and enchanted by music and dance. I suppose our long estrangement lay in part in the fact that our wives, frankly, didn’t care for each other. They had run in different circles in high school and nothing had changed thereafter. Dan and I did the time-honored guy thing, and acquiesced to our wives’ social choices; so after their wedding the time during which we did not see each other stretched from months to years to decades. Today’s reunion had been brought about another of those quirky similarities that seemed to define our lives. A few years before I had been attending a convention in New York City. I returned to my room rather late one evening, after dinner and The Lion King. I don’t know if I was actually humming “The Circle of Life” when I saw the message light blinking on the phone, but I choose to believe I was. I picked up the receiver, punched in the retrieval code, and a voice reached out across those decades, “Hi, this is Dan. Glad you could make it up for my birthday. We’re here in the hotel, give me a call.”

Apparently as Dan’s 50th birthday approached he had continually told his family “Don’t do anything for my birthday. Please, don’t do anything for my birthday.”

Then as November 21st dawned he turned to his wife, Patti, and asked, “So, what are we doing for my birthday?” The fact that she did not strike him with a large blunt object is simply further testimony to the fact that she was an amazing woman. Instead she suggested that they drive up to the city for the night and see a show. They arrived without reservations, picked a hotel in the theatre district at random, parked the car and walked into a lobby full of people wearing nametags that said

“National

Communication

Association.”

Dan

thought for a moment and then walked to a house phone, picked it up and said “Will you ring Rob Schrag’s room, please?”

We had met for coffee and a hurried “catch-up on a quarter of a century chat” before our lives swirled apart again. Over the last couple of years we had been better. Email and a few phone calls, but no actual visits. Today, I had just dropped my older daughter off at George Washington University – down inside the Washington, D.C. beltway, maybe thirty miles from Dan’s home. I had called to see if I could stay with him over the weekend while she moved in and got settled. He had said sure – after checking to make sure that my visit wouldn’t conflict with his trip to deliver his daughter to the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill – which is about thirty miles from my house. I know, I know – too strange.

As I followed his instructions out the gas station in Bethesda where Dan was going to meet me – “You’ll never find this place,” – I thought about the further remarkable similarities that had continued after our parting of ways. He had gotten a Ph.D. in English; mine is in Communication. He had pursued a career outside the

academy but now worked extensively with a company that used technology to bring information to universities. My life had been spent in the classroom, but over the last few years I had become more and more interested in how technology could be used in the service of human interaction. “Funny,” I thought as I pulled into the gas station.

As Dan stepped out of his car I was again struck by the fact that only the hair gone pure white contradicted the memory of the man I had parted company with decades ago. His bright blue Irish eyes still sparkled as though enjoying some delightful private joke on the world. I tailed him to his house – he was right, I never would have found it. While greeting Patti I noticed —

really for the first time — a similar light in her eyes; something I had missed during our high school years; and I regretted the lost years of learning to know her better. We talked through the evening and into the morning. He admitted to having become fascinated with watercolors over the last few years and showed me his work. I took him to my web site and showed him evolving efforts at sculpture and drawing. He played his daughter’s CD for me; I confessed that jazz and blues

“girl singers” were among my very favorite types of music. He grilled steaks for dinner. We tossed the dishes into the dishwasher, mixed ourselves a drink and walked out to the patio. As we settled ourselves to watch the evening fade, he pulled out a pack of cigarettes and said sheepishly, “I seem to have taken these up again.”

“It hasn’t been the easiest year for me either,” I admitted. “I still don’t buy my own but have smoked my friends’ on more than one occasion.” He chuckled that wry chuckle I remembered so well, and tossed me his lighter.

We

sat

sipping

and

smoking

in

quiet

companionship, no conversation needed. For just a moment the liquor was 3.2 beer, the Washington suburbs were a small town in central Ohio, and life was as simple as it had been when we were kids together so long ago.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

Friendship, like love, is based upon resonances among our three primary note clusters. However, it is important to realize that friendship and love are two very dif- ferent things. My personal belief is that people who fall in love with, and stay in love with “friends” were always in love, they just didn’t recognize the kinds of resonances we discussed in the section on love above. On the other hand people who end up marrying or establishing romantic relationships with people who really are “friends”

will find that they have made a mistake, because friendship meets very different needs than love. You can stay friends with someone all your life, but building a life together requires love. Sometimes we get the creatures confused, but ask yourself these two questions: 1. How many of your close friends do you think of as potential lovers? [If you surprised yourself with that answer, don’t do anything until you answer the second question.]

2. How many of your former lovers are now

your friends?

[That’s a short guest list,

right?]

Both friends and lovers are vital people in our lives, but we can save ourselves a lot of heartache if we remember that they are very different kinds of people. That night, sitting there on Dan’s patio, I realized that here was a man who would always be my friend; who would always understand me at a level far beyond the ability of most people, who would do me favors when I asked, and for whom I would do whatever I could when called upon. Yet, I felt no need to ask him why he hadn’t called over the last two decades, and I felt no need to explain my own lack of contact. Similarly I felt no need to know who his other friends were and why he had spent time with them instead of me. Certainly part of that comfort may be a “guy thing.” My friends who specialize in interpersonal communication tell me that men do friendship differently than women. Part of that comfort may also stem from the fact that we are both straight, so the physicality of the signature notes isn’t important. But mostly, I think that the comfort is a reflection of that difference between friendship and love, particularly if we consider the differences as they are revealed by chord theory.

The difference between love and friendship is reflected in differing degrees of resonance among the various note clusters. The vital aspect of a love relationship is based upon mandatory resonances between two people’s signature/biological note clusters and the notes of the unconquerable soul cluster. Naturally, a degree of harmony at the signature note level is desirable for friends. It would be difficult to maintain a friendship with someone who was discordant with your biological chord – a toxic person. On the other hand; too much resonance at the signature note level – in friendships where gender and sexual preference allow romantic potential – adds an element that is distracting and possible destructive to the friendship. Friendship is primarily dependent upon the notes of the unconquerable soul.

The notes of the unconquerable soul define our relation- ship to life. They are the commitment we have made to ourselves that both define what is important in existence and what we must do in light of that definition. When they sound their clarion call lives may well be totally redefined. Paul Gauguin began his adult life a stockbroker. Though always fascinated by painting, he pursued a solid and respectable life in France, fathering five children with his Danish wife. But when he was 35, the bank where he had worked for 10 years as a stockbroker encountered financial difficulties, and he was laid off. Gauguin, who had been painting part time for a number of years, took this opportunity to paint full time. It was then that the notes of his unconquerable soul crystallized and within a few years he had left his family to paint in the Marquesas Islands of French Polynesia. Only a friend – someone who shared a great deal of res- onance with Gauguin’s notes of the unconquerable soul – could or would defend that decision.

Unfettered by

physical needs or desires prompted by close resonance with the signature notes a friend has less need to be in the physical presence of the other, less need to keep them nearby. As a matter of fact, a friend – linked by strong resonances in the notes of the unconquerable soul would encourage the other to leave; to manifest the notes of their unconquerable soul as fully as possible. Lovers and family – linked by different resonances would, and undoubtedly did, condemn such behavior as irresponsible, uncaring, and unloving. I have given a great deal of thought to my rediscovered friendship with Dan. Obviously there is a great deal of resonance between our environmental notes. We were in many ways raised together, in academic families, in the same town. We shared common friends and common expectations. Yet, while that obviously augments our

friendship, I do not believe it is its primary basis. Friendships of convenience, based on the accident of proximity, can — like arranged marriages – feel a lot like the real thing. Yet, I shared environmental notes with many acquaintances from my youth, but Dan is the only friend I have retained from my high school and undergraduate days, and that friendship survived a gap of 25 years. No, true friendship runs beyond the convenience of the environmental notes. As I look back upon our lives and examine the very similar choices we have made; I am convinced that Dan and I remain friends because of the harmony we share in the notes of the unconquerable soul. Those notes sound most clearly to each of us as we stumble around in the crooks and crannies of our own minds. We are happiest and most content when we discover new and delightful ways of expressing the strange stuff we find there. And that happiness is magnified when shared with a friend who needs no prologue to understand it.

Families

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

Gazing out of the windshield, across the flattening landscape of southeastern South Dakota, I am struck anew by the realization that we have been here for a long, long time. Throughout the last half of the 1800s, all during the 1900s, and now, in the opening days of the 21st century; I am merely one of the hundreds of Schrags who, across those centuries, have paused to look at and reflect upon this unique span of the land that has served as both cradle and grave for so much of our family. I am not native to the area. Many of us who return to this fertile corner of the state were born far from the pastures and horizons that still hold us in thrall. The everyday realities of my life have nothing to do with the raising of cattle or pigs, with the growing of alfalfa, or soybeans, or corn. I teach, read, write, endure meetings, hunt parking spaces, and fight traffic. The weather is background music to an urbanized life, or an inconvenience. I am one of the South Dakota expatriates — the sons and daughters, granddaughters and grandsons, nieces, nephews and cousins of those who have stayed on the land.

I know from conversations with those who live here, from the weather reports, and from the time I spent in Wisconsin that winter in South Dakota can be harsh, unforgiving, and bitter cold. The blizzard’s brush blots out both sun and moon – painting the world, from horizon to horizon in the varied hues of frozen, tinged by cold seeming forever. Laura Ingalls Wilder didn’t make up her tales of ropes stretching from the house to a barn lost in some icy crystal cavern. She learned those scenes in winters like those that visit this country – a land that stretches north unimpeded to the Arctic Circle. But I have never seen it. For me South Dakota is a summer season.

For those of us who came calling in more gentle times South Dakota is a land of warm, if not blazing hot, pastures that lie beneath a bright summer sun. Clouds float on wings of hope, hope for rain to quench – without drowning – the fragile fields of corn and beans and grass that feed the gently turning wheel of life. I failed in my self-aggrandizing role of rainmaker this year – attracting a mere thirty-three hundredths of an inch in my tenday stay. I was disappointed, but those who live here were both more disappointed and understanding than I. My disappointment grew from a more metaphysical need for a South Dakota storm.

When you can see all the way to the horizon, storms become a personal experience. Clouds don't spring unexpected from behind a line of trees, or sweep suddenly around the edge of the skyscraper on the corner. Rather, banks of thunderheads build slowly along the edge of the world and spread gradually toward you. Lightening etches blues and grays and purples into the sky and into the back of your eyes. The thousand possible paths seemingly open to the storm are really only one path, and that path leads straight to you. The winds trace a route from faraway to right here. The smells of wet grass, damp hay, and settled dust blend with the alchemist tang of lightening on the air. Rain becomes a paintbrush that rearranges the hues and edges of the landscape. But when the storm breaks it breaks only over you. Rain and wind may stretch for miles, but the epicenter is here in your heart.

This affinity I have for storms seems inherent, but may well have been born on these Schrag family farms on the leading edge of the great American prairies. I cannot specify which particular farm or which particular night. I have watched many storms on several farms so cannot catch the specific place or moment of the dawning of my love of storms with any certainty. But I remember one storm from the summer of 1999. My younger daughter Emily and I were driving to a family reunion with my sister Margaret, [in earlier days AKA “Big Peggy” to distinguish her from our younger cousin “Little Peggy,” now Megan] her husband William, and their son Jamie. Greater Chicagoland shrank to a fly spot on the rearview and then vanished as the miles marked off Illinois and Iowa and then traded Iowa for South Dakota. As we rolled into the early miles of the state that sense of intensity and freedom that is storm grew within me. Yet the sky waxed blandly blue with flecks of white clouds teasing about the western horizon.

Evening brought the hope of storm, but the fickle curtains of rain swept north and away. Lightening laughed from the wrong quarter and beans and the corn lay thirsty. We had descended into this familiar corner of the world paying our respects to the matriarchs of the clan, receiving their blessings, and being allowed our place again, here where Schrags have been known time out of mind. My younger daughter and her cousin were asleep in the basement. My generation, too, slept. Only my cousin Doug and I remained awake.

We sat on his back deck. Thunder rumbled and lightening teased the western sky.

“Do you think we'll get any rain?” I asked,

amazed how quickly something of no consequence in my everyday world could take on the urgency that rain has always had for

those whose lives are tied to the land.

“I don't know,” Doug replied. “Lightning's all coming from the wrong places.” His hand dissected the night sky. “First it came from there, and then from there. Rain'll always

miss us when that happens.”

“Now if it would start over there,” his hand

paused above the horizon due west, shading

maybe a hair to the north, “Then we could get

some good rain.”

As though bidden, lightening split the sky above his gesture. Neither of us spoke, nursing drinks which in days gone by would have been either sipped furtively on the darkened porches of someone's parents' house, or sucked brazenly in the back of a pick-up parked along a dirt road under a huge and forgiving sky. It was midnight and the mosquitoes were hungry. Doug finished a now infrequent cigarette and we retreated inside, saying our goodnights.

I cranked the windows open in the pitch black of my borrowed room, thankful for both the breeze they admitted and for the screens that that held the bugs at bay. Suddenly on that breeze I smelled the smell, heard the sounds, and felt the feeling. I knew what was going to happen. Sightless except for the freeze frame images of the lightening I felt, heard, and smelled the storm unfold. Transfixed, I lay in the center of the tempest — as young as lightening, as old as water.

The next day Doug declared it a good rain. Almost an inch. For me it had been, as always, more than a good rain; for me it had been a miracle. However my kin who live here have, long ago, come to realize that whatever nourishment the storms bring to the soul – the moisture they bring to the land is far less predictable. They know that it will eventually rain, maybe too little or maybe too much. And they know that no amount of wishing will bring just the right amount at just the right time. If it happens, it happens; but a far more profound hand than ours rests upon that giant spigot in the sky.

∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞

Experiences such as those described above have led me to see my extended family in almost mystical hues – the intense brightness of lightening etched against dark storm clouds poised above the swirling green of thirsty fields, bent in supplication. Yet, families can claim with certainty only one form of resonance: biological, signature note resonance, everything else is choice and tuning. I mean no disrespect to the myriad new definitions of nonbiological families that have evolved in the waning years of the 20th century and the first years of the 21st. They can represent innovate, creative and immensely supportive ways of people living together. But I must begin this section by discussing that very traditional, timeless, and somehow ethereal notion of family – blood ties. These ties that bind us together as families can create some very paradoxical relationships. I’m sure you have heard something similar to what a friend once said to me: “Of course I love her. She is my sister. I just don’t like her very much.”

Families are nonetheless knit together by our signature notes. Those notes, dependent as they are on our DNA and RNA, are given to us by our biological parents. This creates some very interesting issues for chord theory. Perhaps most obvious is the fact that we are more closely related to our children and our parents than we are to our spouses. Strange, isn’t it – the one person in a family we get to choose is the person least closely tied to us – yet they too more closely tied to our shared children than to us. Maybe that is why it is natural that you can choose to stop being someone’s spouse, but you can never choose to stop being a child’s parent.

Here is another one: our children contain the signature notes most likely to resonate with ours. They are the product of our own signature notes and the notes of someone who resonates closely with our notes. Furthermore, we asserted above in the section on love that resonance on the signature chord level is mandatory for romantic, erotic love. Is it any wonder that human society has developed such strong prohibitions against incest? If chord theory is right, without those social prohibitions, every biological family is a Greek Tragedy waiting to happen.

But while those are interesting issues to consider they are not the only ones that make families so interesting from a chord theory perspective. Even more interesting are the negotiations that take place between children and parents in the tuning of the environmental and unconquerable soul notes. Remember our discussion of the

“opposites attract fallacy?”

The attraction was not

between opposites, but between similar signature notes that had been differently tuned. A family is a group of people with highly resonant signature notes, but with a wide variety of choice and tuning options scattered across the other note clusters.

During the years when the children live at home, the parents choose the tuning of the environmental notes. Location of the home, its size, food, music, activities, even ritual and belief are all decided by the parents. And the parents obviously provide all of those elements with an eye toward a tuning of both environmental and unconquerable soul notes that they would like their children to adopt. In some circles it borders upon the obsessive – parents of newborns discuss the preschool that will lead to the right kindergarten that will lead to the right elementary school to the right prep school to the right college to the right law or medical school or MBA program that will lead to the right company – all of which may still produce someone who decides to go to the South Seas and paint.

The notion is that parents – motivated by wishing the very best for their children – seek to make tuning decisions for their children that eventually only the child can make. I worry that the parents may actually defeat their own purpose with these “suggested tunings”. Human beings are more complex than any other musical instrument we are likely to encounter in our lives, but we can learn something from the care of a Stradivarius. A fine violin has two major requirements: it must be kept in an environment that does not damage it, and it must be played. For children, the first requirement remains unchanged. But in providing a non-damaging environment we need to recall our efforts at making ourselves receptive to chords – the idea was to put ourselves in the presence of a wide variety of chords. For children, an en- vironment in which all the tuning choices have been made is a damaging environment. Children, too, need to find themselves in the presence of all manner of chords. Only then can they learn the ongoing tuning process that will eventually define the notes of their own unconquerable souls. The second Stradivarius rule must be amended somewhat; children don’t needed to be played, they need to be allowed to play. The process of tuning the notes of the unconquerable soul is a series of experimental melodies. It is only by constructing a variety of chords that we come to sense which one is best for us. Children need to be free to play a variety of melodies without our recrimination. If we would have our children emulate our tuning then we should focus on playing our own chord as sweetly as possible – providing an admirable option as opposed to a mandated melody.

My family – both the home I was raised in and the extended family with its roots in South Dakota – provided me with some admirable tunings to contemplate. From my parents and various uncles and aunts I heard the symphony of the academy full of delicate nuances, interspersed with the staccato point and counterpoint of intellectual debate. From those who live among the storms of South Dakota I have heard a deeper, more mysterious melody of the land, our place in it, and our responsibilities to it. My own tuning draws me ever more strongly to expressing the unity and beauty that is revealed when the light of intellect shines upon, yet remains open to, the power and nature of the land. I’m not really sure how that chord turns out yet, but I hope I can pass at least parts of that particular tuning option along to my children and grandchildren.

1

Chapter

Improvisation #4: Un-

chaining the Melodies of

Art

The anguish of the artist is not the result of an inability to see truth; it is rather the

product of the frustration that accompanies

trying to paint a sunset for the blind or play a symphony for the deaf. The joy of the artist

springs from accomplishing those tasks and in

doing so, revealing deeper truth.

I am convinced that no one chooses to make a living as an artist — rather art claims their life. I am further convinced that an artist hides in each of us, but that most of us have conspired, with formal education and the fragmentation of communication modalities, to subjugate that fragile being. This improvisation seeks chord theory’s guidance to understand both art and the artist; and to seek ways to liberate that artist within us all. The exploration begins with a problem of definitions. We all know what art is – it is what we say it is. Watch people walk through galleries and you can almost hear them mentally sorting things into three big heaps – Art, Not Art, and Maybe Art. Art critics have more heaps because it is in their best interests to create a bunch of heaps and encourage folks to argue about what goes in which heap. These critics and art historians get to create the soundtracks for the museum headphones that point out good art, bad art, avant-garde art, becoming art, betraying art, great art, fine art, folk art, and Art –

my second cousin once removed. It is a definitional nightmare further complicated by the fact that many of our beliefs about art are drawn from the one mode of expression – text – that is used to judge, assess, describe, and evaluate works executed in other media. So scholars and artists pile definition upon contradictory definition: Art class was like a religious ceremony to me. I would wash my hands carefully before

touching paper or pencils. The instruments of

work were sacred objects to me. — Joan Miro

Art is made by the alone for the alone. —

Luis BarraganAll art is solitary and the studio is a torture area. — Alexander Liberman A guilty conscience needs to confess. A work

of art is a confession. — Albert Camus

It is through Art and through Art only that

we can realize our perfection; through Art and Art only that we can shield ourselves from the sordid perils of actual existence. — Oscar

Wilde

If you practice art, be proud of it and make it proud of you. — Maxwell Anderson

The essence of all art is to have pleasure in

giving pleasure. — Mikhail Baryshnikov

I like to pretend that my art has nothing to do with me. — Roy Lichtenstein

To ask the meaning of art is like asking the

meaning of life.

Experience comes before

measurement against a value system. —

Fairfield Porter

Acting is merely the art of keeping a large

group of people from coughing. — Sir Ralph

Richardson

An artist cannot speak about his art any more

than a plant can discuss horticulture. — Jean

Cocteau

Obviously there is a bit of lingering uncertainty, even among artists and experts, regarding the definition of art. But thankfully, we at least know who “real” artists are, right? Writers, poets, painters, sculptors, playwrights, actors, dancers, choreographers, filmmakers, musicians, singers, and composers; no doubt about those folks, they are artists and the stuff they create is art. But then there are areas in which we are less certain. How about architects? Frank Geary and Gaudi, with their fanciful twists and enchanting forms are certainly artists. Frank Lloyd Wright, especially if we consider the wonderful art noveaux furnishings he designed? OK, an artist. But what about the architect who designed those big houses around the golf course? The housing development out on the old Miller farm? Artist? I don’t know. And how about performance artists, and folks who do “installations?” And what about the woman who paints those amazing mailboxes and sells them out at the flea market, not to mention that guy who makes animals out of logs. Who knows? You can see where I am going with this; like the contradictory definitions of art above, arriving at a precise definition an artist is equally problematic. But in chord theory those distinctions drawn from the varying definitions of art and artists are trivial dualities. In chord theory art is the physical manifestation of a significant chord.

An artist is the creator of that physical manifestation.

That definition might seem a gross over-simplification. But I am not at oblivious to the fact that artistic expression has shifted radically across the millennia. I realize that schools of expression, methods of execution, media and perspective have varied, meshed and deviated time and time again over the centuries.

But from a

chord theory perspective the shift has been minimal; the task of the artist across all of history has been to make manifest the essence of a significant chord. But while the definition may seem simple, the completion of the task implies several daunting steps.

First, the artist must sense and understand the multifaceted non-trivial duality we call a chord. The complete chord of love or family, friendship or country, patriotism or passion; not the trivial dualities we have been taught encompass those entities, but the full harmony of meaning – the non-trivial duality, the chord. Next the artist must conceptualize the chord in expressive terms – she must figure out what range of expressive symbols in what configuration will constitute a comprehensible expression of the chord. What presentation of symbolic units through what media can cause the chord to migrate from soul to soul? And finally, the artist must construct or create the expressive entity – the work of art that carries that complex melange of meaning. I am awestruck by the fact that in every age of human existence there have been people actually capable of doing all those things. It is all the more amazing for the fact that they have had to work with tools that have been systematically and increasingly fragmented —

making holistic expression more difficult while encouraging a more sparse expression in one medium. Let me unpack that a little further.

Remember our discussion back in the Improvisation on Communication:

Our communication media are … limited. If I wish to speak about or write about a feeling, event, or concept I am confined to words. If I choose music I am confined to notes. If I

choose painting or drawing I am confined to

shape, form and color in one-dimension. If I

choose sculpture I am confined to shape, dimension and texture. To choose any particu- lar modality of expression is to deprive myself of all the others.

Expression, particularly the intricate and exquisite expression we demand of artists, cries out for the full range of human communicative modalities. But great artists, in a particularly wry bit of cosmic irony, are forced into the deep and narrow instead of the broad and expressive. They deprive themselves of the service of a variety of modalities to gain the expertise necessary to allow one mode of expression to carry an entire chord.

Georgia

O’Keeffe gave up dance for painting; Ansel Adams, trained as a concert pianist, abandoned the keyboard for the darkroom.

Why? Why make such limiting choices? Why either/ or instead of both/and? It is the result, I believe, of an unfortunate blend of perception, expertise and expectation that one finds in genius. I do not believe that it is terribly uncommon to encounter an artist with a good grasp on a significant chord. That goes back to the notion of art choosing the artist, not the other way round. The artist, like the synesthete with perceptual bridges left unburned, is claimed by art because of a lingering sensitivity to the broader perceptual/conceptual entity we have defined as a chord. Feeling that broader and deeper reality demands, in the artist, the expression of the chord.

A good artist can allow us to glimpse at one facet or another of that chord through one modality or another. For example, Wyland [just Wyland it seems – no additional name] calls himself an “undersea artist.” And he is an artist of exceptional ability. I became acquainted with his work in Laguna Beach, California, where he lives and has several galleries. He paints, sculpts and draws. His subjects include porpoises, sea turtles, killer whales, “under water” scapes. In short, he flirts with subjects that could easily become “kitch” and purely commercial, and his website store [www.wyland.com] reveals a breadth of products that would make both Picasso and Dali envious. However, he avoids crass commercialism with a genuine sensitivity to his subject and a fine level of technical artistry across media. If I were a wealthy man I would buy his work. But there is a difference between Wyland’s Symmetry, a pair of porpoises that create a visually pleasing arch and Rodin’s Fallen An- gels, a pair of collapsed female forms wrapped in wings. When I looked at the porpoises in Symmetry I thought

“What a lovely construction,” and I moved – in my head

– from a consideration of the work to the larger issues of the environment and the fragility of the ocean. That theme was enhanced as I looked at the other works in the studio and walked out onto the deck to watch the Pacific swells roll along the beach. It was an experience that was both pleasant and meaningful – but gentle. Fallen Angels does not permit such a casual relationship. You may recall my discussion of the piece: I was completely mystified by the synesthesia

of the experience. Just looking at Fallen An- gels triggered a cascade of sensations that had nothing to do with “looking” or seeing. Some

days when I looked at it I could hear the

memory of wind rushing around their wings, I

could feel the magic of the updraft across the tops of the wings creating the alchemy of

flight. Other days their sensuous curves telegraphed the subtle slide of soft skin to my tingling fingertips; at the close of the exhibit I cursed the cowardice that denied me a stolen

touch, a single tracing to confirm the solidness of those ethereal forms. Another visit and I would hear the soft echo of voices sweet and

caressing

beyond

the

capability

of

mundane human speech.

I was not undone by Wyland’s work, I was by Rodin’s. The aspect of Rodin’s sculpture that truly

staggered me was the fact that a work in a

single modality could sound a myriad of notes

in a stunning facsimile of a true multimodal

expression.

That, I believe, is the aspect of true genius that forces some artists to forsake all media save one. There are two routes to the full expression of a significant chord: One is a multimodal expression of the conceptual crystallization that expresses the insight across our entire range communicative, perceptual, conceptual modalities. The second is a work of genius that accomplishes the same thing in one modality. Since the environment in which one could create the first is largely non-existent; genius seeks the second. The preceding sentence demands further explanation. The first phrase “the environment in which one could create the first is non-existent” contains a tale of thoughts, feelings and containers. Remember back in the Improvisation on Communication, where I bemoaned the lack of multimodal containers for expressive communication? Well, art is the ultimate expressive communication and, as such, is more constrained than any other form of communication by the lack of expressive multimodal tools. We are currently taking baby-steps toward a communication environment that will allow for multimodal expression. The creation of such a communication environment will, in turn, lay the foundation for a multimodal artistic environment, that we will talk about in a moment. However, the historical and contemporary absence of that multimodal environment demands extreme measures by artistic/expressive geniuses. That is the subject of the concluding, more enigmatic phrase: genius seeks the second. Remember

chordman? Remember this version?:

Email Robert.Schrag@gmail.com for the image.

In this depiction of a fragmented chord which looks like a star fish with five arms, below the base of each arm, pointing toward the center of the star fish are triangles - the base of each arm is the base of the triangle with the apex at the center of the star fish. The triangles represent the funnels of expertise which if driven deeply enough and precisely enough would penetrate to the center of the non-trivial duality of the chord, allowing the single trivial duality to reveal the non-trivial totality of the chord. That unimodal route to the center of the chord is — in the absence of a multimodal artistic container — the only option for the genius who senses the totality of the chord and is compelled to express it artistically. That is why O’Keeffe could not dance and paint, why Adams could not play the piano and do photography – to dilute the effort over two modalities would reduce the chances of the artist becoming skilled enough in one modality to con- sistently – or even occasionally — hit the center of the chord.

That is why, when we study art history, we are usually presented with a world populated with artists who demonstrated their genius in discrete modalities. They were known primarily as painters or sculptors or writers or musicians, etc. They drove to the center of their chords with superb skill and singularity of purpose. And yet O’Keeffe’s desire to both dance and paint, Adams’ expertise at the piano before his commitment to photography and Michelangelo’s unique skills in both painting and sculpture provide tantalizing evidence that art –

even at its highest levels — need not always be an either/or proposition. There is a case to be made for both/and.

The “both/and” proposition has strong ties to the traditional relationship between art and technology. Technology has always been art’s partner. Better ways of isolating pigment and binding it to substances that could be brushed on canvas led to advances in painting. Harder metals opened new opportunities for sculptors and artisans. Stradivarius could not have created his instruments using stone knives to carve his wood, or without his magical varnishes to coat the wood. Without smelting there would be no bronzes, novelists would wither without the printing press, the digital CD and the MP3 now bring music to millions.

The superb irony is the fact that we are using 21st century technology to reinforce communicative and artistic processes that have their roots in prehistory. We still live, for the most part, in a unimodal expressive world. We rarely blend the communicative modalities that we discussed in Improvisation #2 on Communication. We write or we talk or we paint or we sing or we play an instrument; we rarely, if ever, blend those modalities into a more complex, richer, deeper expression of a chord.

No — movies don’t count, nor does theatre, or ballet or TV or music videos. “Why not!?” you may legitimately inquire. The answer is simple — “we” don’t make them,

“they” do. The difference between “us” and “them” is simple — they are businesses with access to message creation systems and distribution systems that we do not have. We are individuals with unique personal insights and inspirations. They have the technological tools to create multimodal modal messages. We have the stuff in our house, or in our studio. They use those tools to create messages designed by large corporations for mass audiences. We express our personal perceptions of a significant chord. They arrive at an artistic compromise. We, most often, seek to express a chord for reasons of personal growth or pleasure; or to enhance the lives of people we actually know and care about. What they make — a movie, music video, TV show, ballet, or major theatrical production requires hundreds of people, lots of money, sophisticated technology and aggressive marketing to reach an audience. That is, most often, not the creation of art as much as it is the generation of product designed to reap a profit.

On those wonderful, albeit rare, occasions when their collaborative efforts do result in art — the physical manifestation of a significant chord — it is group art, not individual insight. The complexity of bringing any of those major multimodal messages to completion demands the coordinated effort of trained professionals using complex production and distribution tools and technologies. It is not hard to understand why the companies that design, engineer, and manufacture the tools that can be used in the expression of communicative impulses see industries, not individuals, as their target market. The tools of multimodal expression are designed – and priced – for them, not us.

Think about it for a moment. We come out of the movies having just seen the latest new release. Let us ignore for the moment whether or not we actually liked the movie. Let us simply consider the process that brought it into existence. One common scenario begins with a novel, old or new. Someone buys the screen rights to the story and a writer – or team of writers —

drafts the screenplay. A casting company works with the producer or director to hire the on-screen talent, the actors. A host of computer graphics wizards – often a completely separate company in its own right — does the special effects. A composer, orchestra, individual vocalists and post-production specialists handle the music. It goes on and on and on. Each group is broken down into subgroups with sub-specialties and usually a unique set of specialized expressive tools to execute their tasks. One of the best ways to appreciate all the specialized skill that goes into a major film is to watch the credits –

all of them.

Those hundreds of folks whose names scroll down the screen, they are the market for contemporary expressive technology – we are an afterthought. They pay lots of money for all the latest bells and whistles – we look for coupons and rebates at Circuit City or Best Buy. And even if we can afford it the communication technology we attempt to bend to our own expressive purposes is created for them, rarely designed to meet our needs. There is, however, no longer any real reason why the technologies that enable multimodal communication, expression, or art should be exclusively limited to, or designed for, communication or “group art” professionals. In fact there are powerful reasons — both artistic and commercial — why communication “tool makers” should turn their attention to developing digital multimodal artistic communication suites for the consumer market. This is the artistic landscape in which the “both/and” expressive reality could begin to develop – providing expressive artistic technologies for “us” not “them.” The most significant artistic movement in human history could be based not on the further expressive isolation of Art the genius or the creative professional, but on the technology assisted liberation of Art, my second cousin once removed – the personal artist who lives in each of us.

I see hope for Art’s liberation in a strange place – our almost compulsive consumerism. Let me explain. It is both the despair and hope of humanity that we have been transformed into consumers of the creative impulse. The hope struck me yesterday as I was browsing through one of my favorite shops. The buyers who stock this store – a little private shop, not a chain – are brilliant. There are more beautiful, winsome, things stuffed into this place than one would think possible. From an eight thousand dollar hand-crafted writing desk to tiny pen knives for under five bucks. Paintings, pottery, glassware – it’s all there in a riotous profusion of color and texture that just makes you smile. The shop is usually crowded with grinning customers some of whom will, like myself, occasionally laugh out loud over some delightful new discovery. They head to the checkout with their latest find – thrilled to acquire something that resonates with their personal chord. The delight we take in such a purchase indicates our awareness of the integral link between life and art. The despair is that we are, for the most part, merely the collectors of these manifestations of our most precious self. We listen to the music that speaks to us. We watch the DVD of films that share our perspective on the world. We hang our walls with copies of images that reflect our view of the world — if we can afford it, we hang the artist’s original. We read the novels and poetry that resonate with our own perceptions. But with rare exception, we do not create those manifestations of an internal harmony; we buy them. Yet, still the hope is evidenced in the fact that we feel compelled to surround ourselves with those external expressions of internalized harmony. It is that very compulsion which affirms our

cousin Art, the personal artist who meanders across the landscape of our hearts seeking the appropriate palette –

the cousin who wishes to be removed no more.

So, why do we surround ourselves with the works of others? If we examine our deepest reactions to those works that enthrall us, the magic is not that they have captured and expressed the innermost secrets of our soul, but rather that they have come so breathtakingly close. It is as if they had stolen into our dreams, wandered into our private musings and reflections and then recreated our perceptions in a public form that is almost how we would have done it ourselves. That space between the public product of the professional artist and the purest perceptions of our internalized chord is the province of the artist who lives in each of us. That is the unexpressed self that only we can create. That is the arena of our own artistry.

Unfortunately we have been taught that we aren’t really artists. Remember the experiment I asked you to try awhile back?:

Go into a preschool classroom and tell the students that you need some help in making up a song, and a dance and words to go with it.

Ask everyone who can sing to raise his or her

hand. Now do the same for dancing, and then

for making up words to songs. Isn’t it amazing? – every child in that class can do all three tasks. They are all singers and writers and

dancers. Then go to kindergarten, then 3rd

grade, 5th grade, 8th and 12th repeating the

exercise. The tragedy is that you will get fewer hands for every task in each classroom. One of the terrible side effects of becoming such sophisticated consumers of the art produced by others is that we become increasing convinced of our own ineptitude. After all, if I have a copy of Rodin on my desk how can I presume to sculpt? If a Picasso print hangs on my wall what of worth could appear on my sketch pad? Pavarotti pours out of my stereo – surely my efforts should be confined to the shower. No, no, no – a thousand times no, and then once more NO. I am not arguing against our appreciation of genius. That should be clear by now. I am struck dumb by the painting, sculpture, poetry and music of geniuses. But I do not confuse their precise expression of the universal chord with the intensely meaningful expression of my own chord. Only you can express your uniqueness. Our encounters with genius should not silence us. Art should drive us into active creation – not passive appreciation.

We hesitate to claim our personal artistry for any number of reasons. Intimidation by the work of geniuses is one. A fundamental schizophrenia in the world of art itself is another. That schizophrenia is the ceaseless sparring between product and process. While individual works of art manifest a particular chord, it is advantageous to think of “Art” as being a chord in its own right. Product and process are both part of that chord – but if either is inordinately emphasized the larger chord slides out of tune. Placing excessive value upon the work itself

–

the

artistic

product

–

guarantees

that

the

“marketplace” will come to define art.

Such a perspective emphasizes the power of the collector and the agent and disadvantages the artist. A friend, with both the interest and resources to live in the rarified world of collectors of fine art, tells me that “in New York people buy art with their ears.” My confusion was obvious so she went on to explain that she meant that the name of the artist was more important than the actual work itself. The idea is to be able to say “Oh, yes that is a Puffinstuf” or “I’m having trouble deciding where to hang my new Puffinstuf.”

In a more harmonic perspective, the product reflects the artist’s progress on the road to honing his or her artistic process. The art object reflects both the value of the artist’s progress and the value inherent in the beauty, insight and power of the object itself. Process can also be valued in the extreme. Two examples, one secular and one sacred impressed me over the last couple of years. In the secular world a friend attended a several-week-long sculpting workshop in Italy. He and the other workshop participants created between five and a dozen works each. At the end of the workshop all of the works were destroyed. They were tossed back into the clay pit to be used in future workshops and the participants went home. I shuddered when he told me the story. I mean these were not hack sculptors – I just know a lot of beautiful stuff got tossed into the barrel. The sacred example occurred not long after the attacks on the World Trade Towers and the Pentagon on

September 11, 2001. A number of Buddhist monks were visiting the North Carolina Museum of Art here in Raleigh. As a demonstration of sympathy and respect they created a special sacred sand painting, a Mandala. It entailed the meticulous sprinkling of brightly colored sand through ornate metal funnels onto a raised platform. The detail was quite beyond belief, and the final impact exceptionally beautiful. And then it was all swept away.

The destruction of the sculpture in the first example was primarily pragmatic. The pieces were heavy and many of the workshop participants were traveling by plane. Transporting the works home would have been both costly and complex. And yet, I thought, far heavier and larger works are shipped around the world everyday. Plus there was this almost righteous declaration that the workshop was about process not product. There was no ambiguity about the destruction of the sand painting: one did not possess beauty. The creation process was a route to the sacred and retaining the product would profane the process.

Chord theory would advocate a more harmonic perspective: the creative process is joyful and enlightening in its own right and the product serves as both a reminder and a manifestation of that joy. As such the product of the process has value to the artist and the audience alike; we should value both process and product. Similarly chord theory’s modulated perspective informs the liberation of the artist within each of us. We need not be experts in any particular process, nor must we be able to produce products that will amaze the critics or cause our name to be whispered into the arched ears of New York’s glitterati. Our task is to make pro- gress on the road to artistically expressing our own unique chord.

I know, that brings us back to the idea that we simply do not have the pragmatic skills to physically produce the sounds, images, and forms that begin to express our chord, let alone blend them into the multimodal expression that captures the non-trivial duality of the larger chords of which ours is a part. I have a friend who is a wonderfully talented artist. One day I asked her what went on in her head when she was drawing.

“For example,” I asked, “in this drawing where the woman’s arm curves around behind her back. What happens between your head and your hand to make the line appear to go behind something when we know it is all happening on a flat piece of paper?”

“Hmmm,” Nina responded. “I guess I think ‘behind’

and the line goes there.”

She was being neither coy nor obtuse, but she was demonstrating the problems we can get into if we, as folks with normal skills and without formal training, start to mess around in the heads of artists who have made a life commitment to their art. In making that commitment they begin to develop skills at a level that will elude the majority of people in the world. But it is intriguing to consider what might result if we did receive at least some modest level of training in artistic expression. Consider writing for example. We actually do study writing throughout our formal education. I still remember sessions in penmanship trying, as Jimmy Buffet would say, to “make the small ls flow. “

For twelve years we all took English, some combination of writing and literature designed to make us competent communicators employing the written word. Colleges still require some sort of freshman writing and literature class. That makes writing the single art form in which most Americans receive formal training. To what end? There is both good news and bad news in the response to that question. The bad news is that the writing readily observable around us – print journalism, flyers posted at retail shops, copy written for broadcast media, and certainly email – show little evidence of scores of undiscovered literary geniuses. The good news is that it seems like you cannot get a cup of coffee or take a ride on a bus without sitting next to someone who is working on a novel – writing one, not reading one. I ran a children’s publishing company for a couple of years. I quickly learned to stop mentioning that fact because everyone who had children, and almost everyone who had been a child, was either writing or thinking about writing a children’s book.

I find it hard to believe that it is coincidence that the one art form in which we actually receive training is the one in which most of us choose to dabble. It would seem far more defensible to assert that we all harbor artistic, creative inclinations; and that many choose writing as their outlet because it is the only expressive mode in which our efforts can attain at least the appearance of a high level of competence. What if we had been required to take twelve years of painting and drawing in school, or musical composition, or dance, sculpting? What if colleges required freshman “studio” of all their students in which they would be required to build on twelve years of previous training in the arts to express something new and unique? My guess is that the number of closet writers would decline somewhat and the number of closet painters, sculptors and musicians would skyrocket. There is an artist in each of us looking for a route to fuller expression. However, if we wait for major national curricular reforms to liberate the artist within we are probably doomed to disappointment.

The first step in the liberation of Art, our second cousin once removed, has to be an individual act of liberation

– you need to take a class. Remember the painter or sculptor or musician or whatever within you is in competition with a writer-within-you who has had years of education and training. You need to invest a little time and effort in the other modes of expression. Take a drawing course, take that adult piano class, take a sculpting class, sign up for the pottery workshop. The degree to which we fail to support artists in our society is truly a dark cloud on our cultural horizon; however it has a silver lining. Most artists cannot actually make a living selling their art, so there are lots of wonderfully talented artists who supplement their income by teaching. They need students; you can be one. Do it. As a matter of fact do it repeatedly. I am a great advocate of artistic cross-training. A class in portrait

painting helps a sculptor by making him or her much more aware of how shadows fall across a face. The painter recreates the shadows in pigment, the sculptor molds the features that would create the shadows. A class in drawing would augment both efforts if one chose to explore black and white. Remember our discussion of Georgia O’Keeffe and her abandonment of color? If we learn how to create light and shadow without color on one dimension we will approach both clay and color with much deeper understanding. You will be amazed how quickly the artist within you takes to methods of expression beyond words. As we pursue the liberation of our internal artist, we need to keep our ultimate objective in mind. Our task is not to become a professional artist; our task is the artistic expression of our unique chord. That expression will, in all likelihood, not be a single masterpiece – a painting or symphony or sculpture. It is much more likely that the expression of your chord will take shape across a wide variety of expressive creations across several media. Our unique chord is a multimodal entity, it only makes sense that our expression of it will take many forms.

The point is that our lack of formal artistic training doesn’t mean that we must resign ourselves to stick figures, four notes melodies, cardboard cameras, and play dough as we seek the expression of our chord. We can actively set out to acquire some basic liberation skills across a variety of expressive media. Furthermore, there are new tools and new containers evolving that can be of significant assistance in freeing the artist within us. The tools are digital.

I pointed out earlier that technology has always been the handmaiden of artistic expression. That is still the case today – perhaps more than ever. Remember those special effects in the movies?

Consider animation.

When Walt Disney first brought his little mouse to the big screen, hundreds of artists meticulously hand-painted thousands of separate images to be shot frame by frame to create his wondrous illusions. A relative handful of lead artists would paint each pivotal scene while hundreds of “tweeners” would paint the images that had to go “in between” those main scenes. Such a labor-intensive process is obviously a thing of the past in today’s competitive media marketplace. Enter the digital handmaidens. Today it is folks skilled in computer graphics who point very powerful very fast computers at the tasks of both the artists and the “tweeners.” Movement, characters, images, voices and music all get stirred up into a great digital stew that pour out across the screen in an amazing mélange of entertainment. That’s fine, but it doesn’t do us much good in the liberation of our inner artist. The problem is that the software companies are making the same mistake that the telephone companies made back in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Back in those days the business brains at Bell Telephone were firmly convinced of two things: 1) businesses, not individuals, would always be the primary users of telephones; and, 2) customers would rent their telephones from Bell Telephone, the company would retain actual ownership of the equipment. The old men of Bell would be completely flummoxed by the contemporary telephony industry in which the company that succeeds will be the company that delivers the best service to individual consumers who carry their personal telephones around with them.

Today’s software companies are focused are creating expressive software for professional users involved in producing amazingly complex messages to be sold to large audiences for either group or individual consumption. Like Bell in its early days they fail to recognize the pent up demand for expressive software that enables us to liberate the artist within. They are focused on those who serve millions, instead of realizing that the millions themselves need their services.

Some of newer software initiatives seem to be leaning in the direction of enabling personal artistic expression. Apple’s new iTunesTM, iPhotoTM, iMovieTM that lurk here on my iBookTM are fascinating are will bear watching. The interesting aspect of this suite of tools is, that with the exception of iTunesTM, we provide the content. They are not software programs designed for professionals, rather they are designed to let us create messages. That attention to the normal consumer results in software packages that seem fairly restricted to creating photo albums and movies with limited flexibility. However, you can actually use them without years of training and that in it’s own right is a vast improvement. Furthermore, my guess is that we will discover that the absence of menus with dozens of features actually promotes individual creativity. It will be fascinating to see what “normal” people begin to create with these new tools.

With a bit more effort, we can also claim some aspects of the more complex products. It is harder, but it can be done. Let me provide just one brief example: Adobe PhotoshopTM. PhotoshopTM is a very full-featured graphics software package. I would never presume to try to tell you all the things it can do to an image. It is perhaps more to the point to say that I doubt there is much it cannot do. I have had a love/hate relationship with this product for a dozen years or more. I love it for what it can do; I hate it for how difficult it often is to make it do what you want it to do.

This “both sides now” aspect of PhotoshopTM was perfectly defined for me by a couple who make their living doing art. She has always been an artist. Primarily a painter, she works in a variety of media that allow her access to the expression of color and form. He was trained as an engineer – of the electrical/computer persuasion. It was later in his life, after a flirtation with puppetry drew him into sculpture, that he decided his Ph.D. looked best hung on the wall and his life looked best in a sculptor’s studio.

I met him as a sculptor. He is one of those artists I mentioned who buy some freedom to create by teaching the rest of us how. I was – and am — one of his students. A couple of years ago I had been working on a seated nude for a few weeks and had moved through these obligatory stages:

1.

My god, she looks like an alien.

2.

I just hate it.

3.

Maybe it is not completely terrible.

I was now at the “If I touch it, I will ruin it” stage, but there was a problem. The torso was too long. If you just glanced at her, she looked fine. But if you looked a moment longer you realized that not only did she have great “abs” but she had at least a double order of abs. I had to remove part of her stomach, take a section out of her midsection, do a tummy tuck of major proportion; no matter how I phrased it the end result was the same – I had to cut the piece in half, remove a portion above the hips and below the ribs and then stick the halves back together to create a woman of normal human proportions. And remember I am in the “If I touch it I will ruin it” stage.

I was also in one of those heady love cycles of my bi-polar relationship with PhotoshopTM. “Ah ha!” I thought,

“This is a PhotoshopTM moment!” I took a series of digital photos of the piece and loaded them into PhotoshopTM. I then dissected the photos and digitally stuck the pieces together. I must have “cut” the photos twenty times before I got the proportions right. But finally I had figured out the incision points, and was able to go into the studio, cut the piece just once and have it come out the way I wanted it.

I was, needless to say, flushed with victory and firmly in love with PhotoshopTM. I shared by victory with Jock my engineer/sculptor/mentor friend who nodded appreciatively. “It looks good,” he opined.

“Do you use PhotoshopTM in your work?” I asked.

“Nope.”

“How about Mickey? Does she use it in her painting?”

“Not anymore. Stopped after version 2.0”

Well, I obviously couldn’t just let it go at that. I had to know how these two artists could spurn this amazing software that had just saved my sculpture. We repaired to the little tavern conveniently located down the street from the studio. Jock told me a tale of the two sides of PhotoshopTM, both of which led these to artists to avoid the software. Mickey, the painter, had used the earliest version of PhotoshopTM. It had allowed her to experiment with some aspects of color that would have required much more labor intensive efforts had she tried to do the same thing using paint and brushes. However, subsequent versions of the software added so many features that it became increasing difficult to find where the simple tools and functions she employed had been stashed in the latest versions. This is not inexpensive software, and from Mickey’s perspective she was being asked to pay a premium price for increasing levels of inconvenience. She went back to paint and brush. For Jock it was a case of avoiding temptation. Remember, he had spent more than a few decades as an engineer. He is fascinated by technology, he is intrigued by the power and the complexity of software. He feels himself in danger of falling back under that spell and neglecting his hard-won time in the studio. What he said made sense. It had taken me hours to manipulate the images that became the blueprints for my incision. I had tried technique after technique. I had perused topic after topic in the Help Menu and had finally stumbled upon the necessary sequence of steps which, I realized with a mild sense of panic, were already getting a bit blurred in my memory.

So what do we do? Here we have this digital environment that could be used as a rich expressive environment for individuals, but the software necessary to manipulate the environment is being designed for people who spend eight to twelve hours a day in front of the screen creating images, video, sound or text for a living. For normal people the software is often a barrier to the creative process in which it should be an aid. Part of the solution lies in creating a human/digital partnership instead of a digital/human partnership. The difference is obviously which side of the partnership sets the agenda. Too often in the “information age” we allow the technology to determine what we do. If a digital cable service exists I probably ought to subscribe. If I have a cell phone I should carry it with me – even to the beach or the desert or the mountains. If my word processing program allows me to put little blinking lights around a word, maybe that is how I should emphasize a point. No. Communication in general, and most certainly creative artistic expression, is a human endeavor. We need to seize the existing technology and turn it to our own ends. Only by doing so will we demonstrate to those folks who make and market the technology and the software that the “artistic market” is both huge and largely untapped.

But if we are to lead the developers to our path we need to know what we want them to provide. This cycles us back to the “take a class” syndrome. It is not quite a

“know your enemy” thing. It is more a “don’t squander your resources” perspective. We need to define the task we want the software to address and then purchase those products which address our needs best.

Perhaps I can illustrate what I mean using PhotoshopTM one more time. I mentioned earlier my frustration with drawing. It extends to painting as well. I love color and its variegation in light and shadow but the normal demands of my life simply do not allow me to take another class in another medium right now. So I have undertaken to combine two areas in which I have some competence to approach another in which I would like to improve.

I call it “enhanced drawing.” I sort of stumbled on it more than I planned it. I was teaching two sections of a summer school class. In the class I use a series of videotapes to expose my students to the history of visual media from the late 1800s to the present. They are excellent tapes – but I have seen them a number of times, so my attention tends to drift. When my attention drifts –

and often when it doesn’t — I doodle. Over the course of a couple of days I produced the following doodle: Email Robert.Schrag for the image.

I liked the drawing but was stymied by the two colors of ink and the yellow pad, not to mention the lines from the tablet. So I scanned the whole thing into Photoshop, turned it into a black and white image and erased the lines from the tablet. Making it black and white was a short “two click” procedure. Getting rid of the lines took about as much time as erasing them by hand would have. But of course since they had been printed on the tablet paper I couldn’t have erased them by hand. This process resulted in my having a new pure black and white version of the drawing – that I wanted to color. So another two click process turned the drawing into a full color drawing – but one in which the only color used so far was black.

I then began to experiment with the “magic wand” tool and the “gradient tool” to select and color various small portions of the drawing. Here is the eventual product: Email Robert.Schrag for the image.

OK, so maybe it isn’t an image that I would care to show to a shrink, but the human/digital partnership did allow me to create an image much like the one that was locked up inside my head. I went on to simplify the process by doing doodles in black and white which eliminated the whole “translate from yellow tablet” phase. That allows me to spend more effort on the drawing and the painting phases like these:

Email Robert.Schrag for the image.

I am not about to enter into the debate regarding whether or not “enhanced drawing” results in art as defined by any of the experts cited at the beginning of this improvisation. It does, however, employ digital technology in a process that aids me in the manifestation of my unique chord. From a chord theory perspective any such manifestation is art.

A Brief Note About Music

If you have been asking yourself if there is some special role for music in a chord theory perspective on art the answer is a resounding yes, and it has to do with black holes. No seriously, it does. You may remember that way back,at the beginning of this book, we talked about the idea that string theory grew out of the mathematical fix that mathematicians and physicists came up with to resolve the seemingly irreconcilable differences between the very tiny world of quantum mechanics and the very big world of special relativity. Well, one of the lingering notions that permeates string theory is the hard won realization that size is deceptive and often relatively unimportant. It is because differences in scale are so readily observable that we tend to exaggerate their importance. As a matter of fact the seeming difference of size often blinds us to a far more important underlying symmetry that unites the very big and the very tiny. Brian Greene points out:

At first sight it’s hard to imagine any two things more radically different than black holes and elementary particles. We usually picture black holes as the most gargantuan of heavenly bodies, whereas elementary particles are the most minute specks of matter. But the research of a number of physicists during the late 1960s and early 1970s, including Demetrios Christodoulou, Werner Israel, Richard Price, Brandon Carter, Roy Kerr, David Robinson, Hawking, and Penrose, showed that black holes and elementary particles are perhaps not as different as one might think… . The similarity of the defining traits has led a number of physicists over the years to the strange speculation that black holes might actually be gigantic elementary particles. (pp. 320 –21.) Once you get your mind around the idea that a huge black hole and a tiny elementary particle are identical except for the fact that one is VERY BIG and the other is very tiny, some intriguing possibilities emerge. The notion that an elementary structure can change its scale at the magnitude of a billion billions and retain its primary characteristics is central to both this improvisation on art and the one on religion which follows it. For art the arresting thought is that music, as we hear it, is our best opportunity to actually perceive strings – the strings that underlie everything in the universe. If an elementary particle can, through a radical increase in scale, morph into something observable like a massive black hole; what prevents strings from morphing into the massive perceivable form that we call music? Apparently nothing. The implications for art are profound. If art is the manifestation of our unique chord, and if music is the chord – the literal strings made manifest – are all other art forms mere pretenders? Are they oblique representations of the true chord that can only be presented through music? I don’t think so. The rate of vibration of a string in the world of physics imparts characteristics. The vibration finds its expression in spin, force charges, and mass which — when multiplied several billion fold

— become form, shape, texture, etc., characteristics amenable to our senses. So in one sense the vibrations of strings are the enablers that result in the more accessible manifestations of the underlying chord. Music maintains that dualistic identity in our threedimensional world of observable, perceivable art. As the overt manifestation underlying chords, music imposes itself upon us more directly than any other art form. We must consciously attend to the other arts, we must turn our eyes toward the object, perhaps reach our hands to touch it. We must have light to see the painting, the stage, the screen, the text; we need our fingertips to touch the fabric, sculpture, even the braille. Even the spoken word requires our attention and interpretive participation. But music pours in without invitation or permission; often we do not consciously assign meaning to it

– it draws a response from deep within us. It is in this guise of the ultimately accessible art that music lays claim to a position of “first among equals” in the expressive world of art. But music is an enabler as well. It seems to impart spin, force charges and mass to works in other modalities. What I mean by that is that artists use music to further their art in other modalities. The creative process has always fascinated me. Whenever I am fortunate enough to spend some time with an artist – professional or personal – I try to ask them about the nuts and bolts of their creative process. When do they write, paint, sculpt, compose, dance, or whatever? In the same place? In different spaces? Do they eat or drink while working? And, do they listen to music? The answer to the last question is almost invariably yes. In the last three years I have met only one artist who did not listen to music while working – and she was a composer, which makes sense.

All the others listen to music. Writers tend to avoid music with lyrics which makes sense in the same way that composers avoid the music of others while creating their own; but the writers will often vary their music depending upon the nature of what they are working on. My sculpting mentor – a Gault of unrepentant Irish descent — prefers Native American flute music when he works. I asked him why and he replied, “It takes me to my creative space faster.”

It is not that he cannot work without music, but he is adamant that he works better with it. His perception is common among artists and reflects my growing conviction that music enables and modulates all other art forms. It is not, I would assert, simply a matter of taste. The unique power of music stems from the inescapable conclusion that music is the vibration of the elementary strings of the universe raised to our threshold of awareness and appreciation. So where has this initial exploration of the intersection between art and chord theory led us? In part it leads us to a family squabble that must be resolved. We have a couple of Arts; we have Art the Genius and Art my second cousin once removed. Members of the same family, they are nonetheless quite different and provide us with different insights regarding our own relationship to art.

We have always recognized Art the Genius. This Art goes by hundreds of names – we’ve mentioned O’Keeffe, Michelangelo, and Rodin. We could list many more – all famous. These are the artists whose lives were claimed by Art; who could, most likely, have done nothing else with their lives. They were, depending on your point of view, blessed, ordained or condemned to be artists. They are precious people in our lives, their insight and work has enriched us all. But somehow we have become convinced that we share nothing in common with these rarified individuals. And Art the Genius’s handmaidens ironically often help to strengthen that conviction. Let me share one interesting paradox with you.

Here in Raleigh, North Carolina we have a delightful state-supported art museum. It is, I believe, if not the only, then one of very few tax supported art museums in the country. I think that is a wonderful thing. I gladly support it with my tax dollars and further my support with a membership. The other day, after a rather grueling set of meetings, I decided to drive over and decompress by looking at the collection of Audubon prints that were on special display. I slipped through the back routes and managed to avoid most of rush hour traffic. It must have about 6:30 when I slipped into the parking lot. I could feel my blood pressure drop as I walked along the shady path. The banked flowers and fragrant crepe myrtles provided a delightful backdrop for the sculpture sprinkled about the garden. I approached the front doors. They were locked. The sign on the door stated that the weekday hours were 9 to 5. Bummer. But I just walked over to one of the benches under the flowering trees, settled myself and relaxed while enjoying a graceful Henry Moore. It was while letting my mind rove quietly roam over the gentle contours of the statute that I realized the minions of Art the Genius had just sandbagged me. The working people of the State of North Carolina had paid for the museum, and yet with the exception of weekends the museum was only open when the folks who paid for it were at work! The not so subtle message was that if you wanted to come visit the house of Art the Genius you came when it was convenient for Art, not for you. Art was special, you were just the working stiff who paid for Art’s house.

No wonder Art, my second cousin — who is the artist living inside each of us – feels so removed. If you can’t even get in the house to visit it isn’t very likely that you’ll even consider the fact that it is your house. Art looks a bit different from a chord theory perspective. Remember that from a chord theory perspective, art is the physical manifestation of a significant chord. An artist is the creator of that physical manifestation. That certainly doesn’t argue for driving Art the Genius out of the house. Art the Big G certainly manifests significant chords — often in ways that are literally breath-taking in their beauty and power. But we also need to remember that we, each of us, are the keeper of a completely unique personal chord. It is a significant chord. We are the only person who can know the chord, so we are the only artist who can express that particular significant chord. This is the arena that we have often left in the neglected hands of Art, our second cousin once removed. Chord theory says we need to get a whole lot less removed from Art, that we need to attend to our expressive selves. We need to make an effort to learn the skills, attitudes, processes, and technology that allow us to create art – the physical manifestation of our own significant chord. Our artistic expression may never end up in Art the Genius’s big house; but it may well find a more important audience in our own living room, den or office. 2

Chapter

Improvisation #5: Where

Does God Fit In?

All nature sings, and round me rings,

The music of the spheres.

Maltbie D. Babcock, 1901

We were in the den. It was sometime after midnight but still well before dawn. We sat nursing drinks that were by now mostly melted ice. It was reminiscent of many nights we had spent together as college roommates

– a couple of eighteen-year-olds confident that we could solve the world’s problems. Tonight, we were a couple of fifty-somethings, alone in the house save for his two friendly, loyal and incredibly dense dogs. We had not solved the worlds problems; but then neither, apparently, had anyone else. It had been about six weeks since I had last seen Dan. The previous visit had been for his wife’s funeral, an event that was, by any measure, at least three decades premature. I had left a draft of the first hundred and fifty pages of this book with him, and he had been working his way through it. His reactions to

the

manuscript

had

been

guiding

our

conversation.

“So where does God fit in?” he asked. “You know, ‘The God Chord?’”

“Everywhere,” I replied. Simplistic – nudging trite –

but also true.

Chord theory revolves around the central principle of harmony. Our individual chord is unique, but it is not isolated. We do not tune our personal chord to fill some existential silence, rather we tune our chord to resonate harmonically with the music of the spheres – with the God Chord. The inestimable contribution that string theory brings to this seemingly exclusively metaphysical assertion is the realization that the music of the spheres is literal, not figurative. The universe is, in Greene’s words, nothing but music. Harmony is created when notes sound simultaneously or sequentially in an order or pattern that is right and pleasing.

String theory describes a universe that is patterned and ordered with a complexity far beyond human capacity. But it is obviously not beyond human comprehension and appreciation. To have learned enough to be amazed is humanity’s greatest achievement. To stand in reverent awe before the complexity of the universe is common to the world’s great faiths. Chord theory shares that awe. Again in concert with the world’s major religions, chord theory rejects the “Whoops!

Golly!” notion

of the evolution of the universe. The “Whoops! Golly!”

perspective acknowledges the incredible complexity, yet exquisite elegance, of the universe and then attributes it all to chance. Some cosmic bumbling of strings and particles that accidentally (Whoops!) resulted in finely tuned harmony that resonates all around us (Golly!). Chord theory, still in concert with many traditional religions, asserts intention, design, a composer for the symphony – God. But it is in the nature of God where chord theory

begins

to

deviate

from

many

traditional

conceptions.

In the previous improvisation we looked at the impact of the works of artistic geniuses. Among the potential impacts were both motivational and paralyzing impacts. We can place our selves in the presence of great art and have its seeming perfection cow us into worshipful impotence; or the presence of great art can inspire our own, unique, creative impulses and efforts. Realizing the presence of something much greater than yourself can create a similar continuum of reactions. You can wait passively for God to make something of your life; or you can “seize the day” and fashion your life in harmony with the music of the spheres. Chord theory advocates the latter.

That advocacy grows from the following observations of the dynamics between string theory and chord theory. It is from string theory’s discoveries regarding the tightly interconnected nature of the physical universe that chord theory draws its suggestion that the distinction between the physical world and the metaphysical realm is spurious. Chord theory’s observations regarding the importance of harmony in the human heart move us inexorably to the assertion that “metaphysical” and

“physical” are trivial dualities that describe two phase transitions of the underlying pervasive harmony of the universe – that right and pleasing order that is the God Chord. It is string theory’s revelations regarding the symmetrical, elegant, harmony of the universe that moves the contention that it all came to be via some accidental toss of particles in a cosmic crap shoot firmly into the realm of absurdity. There is something that pervades the organization of the cosmos. Something – intelligence, force, consciousness, supreme artist – began the composition that is the music of the spheres; the score upon which the celestial symphony is being written. Finally, chord theory asserts that that something is the consciousness that we commonly call God, and that the composition is a process in which we are invited to participate. Our role is not that of mute and passive audience member. By simply drawing breath we send our notes out to mingle with the potential harmonics of the universe. Our role is to compose our chord carefully, soulfully, in love and joy – to make a contribution to that right and pleasing order.

So is the God Chord “God”? Trying to write a response to that question makes me profoundly aware of the limitations of language. The appropriate response seems to float out just beyond the realm of speech; a communicative crystallization I lack the tools and expertise to express. But that has never stopped me from trying before

– so let me bull on ahead here.

As you might have guessed by now I do, on occasion, trot out some of these ideas in my classroom. They have stimulated a wealth of fascinating discussions. I don’t know if teaching in the South increases the number of fundamentalists in my classes, but it certainly doesn’t decrease it. I have had many students – sincere serious students from fundamentalist, mainstream and fringe congregations — born-again Christians, Orthodox Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, Catholics, Protestants – ask me “Do you believe in God?”

My first inclination is to say “Yes, of course.” But I realize that their conception of God is so different from my conception of God that to answer in the affirmative would be a lie. Those young people, in a chord theory view of the universe, do not believe in God as much as they believe in a church, a faith, an organization. Let me try to clarify. I believe that all religions –

mainstream, sect, cult, and wild-eyed weirdoes who worship fire hydrants – can all trace their origins to moments of harmony with the God Chord. I am tempted to assert that we have all had moments of harmony with the God Chord, but I have no data. When I talk about

“Moments of harmony with the God Chord, I am talking about moments of ethereal peace and wholeness and well-being. The teenager sitting on the rock way back on page four experienced just such a moment of harmony with the God Chord. I suspect that we have more moments of harmony than we realize, but the fast pace and pragmatic focus of Western life in the 21st century hustles us past them before we can realize what is happening. When we stop and pay attention, moments of harmony are powerful, meaningful, life-affirming, and sometimes life-altering experiences.

I have no doubt whatever that Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, Buddha and Confucius all experienced moments of harmony with the God Chord. But there are at least a few differences between their harmonic moments and ours. First, if we put any trust in the texts that recount those harmonic moments, these were individuals whose individual chords were so finely tuned that they experienced an unusual number of harmonic moments. Second, these were individuals who were able to take the communicative crystallization that grew out of those harmonic moments and express it with clarity and power to others – in essence replicating the experience for others. Third, the replication of the experience became codified, set down in a series of writings, chants and rituals that became the foundation for a Church, a Faith – an organization.

It is in that third distinction that a wedge is driven between the God Chord and a church. A church or faith is not the harmonic moment experienced of its founder. An institution is radically different from a harmonic moment. An institution is an organization that – first and foremost – must survive as an organization. When the harmonic experiences of the primary prophet become institutionalized into a “faith” the trivial dualities of the particular faith begin to overwhelm the non-trivial duality of the harmonic moment. It is important to emphasize that the harmonic moments experienced by Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, Buddha and Confucius were all in harmony with the God Chord and hence were, of neces- sity, harmonic with each other. It is this essential, harmonic non-trivial duality that gets lost in the evolution of the church as organization. Let us think about Chordman-Star fish one more time. But this time envision the arms as being the individualized, institutionalized religions of the world. The non-trivial duality below the arms are the shared harmonic moments, all of which are harmonic with the God Chord.

Those religious organizations, above the arms, are perhaps the most paradoxical conceits of humanity. I am reminded of the Hindi goddess Shiva. One the one hand religious organizations have codified and shared many powerful moments of harmony with the God Chord. On the other hand they have served as instruments of vital social and cultural reform. Ghandi and Dr. Martin Luther King serve as two of many examples of modern day prophets through whom religious organizations have done great things. On the third hand organized faiths have served as islands of peace and comfort for countless people who turn to their faith in times of grief and loss. But on the fourth hand they serve as stern taskmasters, demanding theological submission and tribute from believers and barring the gates of heaven to those who refuse to submit. On the fifth hand they have been used time and time again to justify the wholesale slaughter of the innocent. One is hard pressed to find a page of history unstained with the blood of soldiers marching into battle to glorify their particular conception of God as mandated by their particular faith. On the sixth hand in they become the quintessential 21st century “faith-based community” with committees, initiatives, objectives, media plans, building committees, and, of course finance committees. I think Shiva is supposed to have a couple more hands; but that should suffice to demonstrate the chasm that has widened between the harmonic moments experienced by some finely tuned prophets and the faiths or churches that have laid claim to the names or experiences of the prophet. Chord theory would seek a more harmonious expression of the God Chord in human society. People who study physics are awestruck by the superb design that underlies the cosmos. Greene’s book The Elegant Uni- verse, is not, I suspect, lightly named. Similarly, those more metaphysically inclined note with delight the way in which the physical universe reflects their perception of balance and rightness. Those mutual discoveries are, I believe, yet another example of how traditional focus on trivial dualities blind us to the far more important non-trivial dualities that lie below the surface. We mistake the phases – ice, water and steam – for the central entity; H2O. Physics and metaphysics are trivial dualities — phases. Our task is to discover the non-trivial duality reflected in them both and express it in all phases of our life. Placing our life in harmony with the God Chord is the single task for anyone who would live what all those organizations have come to call a holy life. So what does that mean? Place your life in harmony with the God Chord? Well, I’m still working my way through that one. And a thorough discussion of the issue would require more than this brief improvisation can offer; but let me share some of my current thoughts. First, if you currently belong to a religious organization; it does not mean that you pull out of it and start a new one dedicated to the pursuit of Chordism or some such weird thing. The last thing the world needs right now is another “faith-based community” running around telling everyone how to run their lives.

I would,

however, spend some time reflecting on the harmonic nature of your religious community. As I have said before, in chord theory the primary issue is harmony. Any presumption of exclusive access to the harmony of the universe is inherently discordant. I would suggest that such an assumption of exclusivity on the part of your religious community should give you pause about finding long-term harmony in that community.

All

faiths obviously believe that they have come to understand important aspects of the relationship between God and humanity. The important question from a chord theory perspective is do they believe that they provide the only avenue to a harmonic relationship with the God Chord? Faiths with such a perspective are, all protestations of piety and humility notwithstanding, arrogant. Arrogance is harmonic only with those who share your arrogance. If that arrogance exists within your religious community, you have to decide if your want to be part of it.

I think it is important to examine your religious community for social discord as well as the theological discord and arrogance described above. To what extent has the religious community become secularized? How important is the organization in the life of the community? Is there significant pressure to serve on committees? Does one’s status depend upon the number of hours you volunteer? The size of your contribution to the building fund? Is there an overt or covert assumption that one should do secular business with members of your religious community in preference to others from other communities? These are common attitudes within all social organizations. They give internal strength to the organization and protect it from attack from the outside. They are also, from a chord theory perspective, discordant. You need to decide the extent to which you wish to share those perspectives.

I probably ought to point out that very few faiths trot their theological or social arrogance right out there for everyone to see. It is usually, but not always, more subtle than that. Let me give you two brief examples. We have a phrase here in the South that is the verbal equivalent of a sucker punch. The phrase is “Bless their/ his/her heart.” It serves to convey the illusion of spiritual compassion before you clobber someone. Some possible uses:

“Margie, bless her heart, is as ugly as last

week’s trash, but you’d think she could take

the time to brush her hair.”

“Tom, bless his heart, is dumb as a post; and

he passed the test.” [This is a particularly effective use of the “heart blessing” ploy in that it allow the user to insult both Tom and the

person being spoken to.]

“That nice Mexican family, bless their hearts, can’t speak a word of English; but they sure

do work hard.” [In this use the inability to

speak English is made equivalent to being

dumb as a post or ugly as last week’s trash.

To one who understands the “heart blessing”

convention it is always the phrase immediately after the heart blessing that defines the terrible flaw you are assigning to the recipient of your “blessing.”]

When we are looking for social arrogance within any community of which we are a part we need to look for strategies like the “bless their heart” strategy that allows the community to denigrate individuals and other communities while seeming to demonstrate compassion. The presence of theological arrogance is sometimes easy to discern. When the outsider is referred to as “a godless heathen” or “a foreign devil,” there is not much room for doubt. There is however a religious equivalent of “bless their heart” that can be equally revealing. It is the “I will pray for you” strategy. I have had any number of students offer to pray for me. These offers are usually tendered after the discussions of God and religion that sometimes spring up in my classroom. It is their way of asserting power in a situation in which I, admittedly, am holding all the high cards. It is their way of saying, without actually speaking the words and possibly endangering their grade, “You are a lunatic, and because I am a God-fearing person I will pray for you. But Dr. Schrag – you are headed straight to Hell!” So when you look for theological arrogance expect to find it heavily wrapped in concern for the heathen and outreach programs to save their pagan souls – bless their hearts. It is important to point out that theological arrogance is almost universal and is the logical outcome of the founder’s moments of harmony with the God Chord devolving into faiths and religions with priests, property and secular realms to administer. Every religion has gone through a period of conflict with and persecution by other powers – both secular rulers and competing faiths. As a result, woven into the belief structure of every major religion, along with the legitimate and precious codification of those initial moments of celestial harmony, are the organizational assertions that each faith is the only one true faith. Such an assertion can only be harmonious within the group and must be discordant to all who stand outside the group. Hence each faith, in professing its fundamental superiority to all others, perverts the very harmony that made the insights its founder so laudable.

Let me again point out that recognizing those flaws of social and theological arrogance does not mandate that one abandon the community.

However, one’s own

unique chord may demand that you call the community’s attention to its arrogance and seek remedies for it. Chord theory is not without its own theological implications. I find two of them particularly fascinating and will close this improvisation with them. They deal with chord theory’s implications regarding the nature and evolution of the soul.

I began this improvisation by recounting Dan’s question that names it – Where does God fit in? It is harmonic that many of the thoughts of this improvisation crystallized on my solitary drives back and forth to his wife, Patti’s, funeral. I had already organized my thoughts and notes regarding the first part of this improvisation before Patti died. I was pretty comfortable with the nature and causes of the trivial dualities that the organizational structure of institutionalized faiths had welded onto the powerful insights of the primary prophets. But non-trivial dualities lingered even after millennia of wars and reciprocal vilification – those amazingly resilient areas of agreement among the world’s dominant faiths. The implications of those agreements are far more intriguing than the rather obvious causes for, and effects of, the disagreements.

The contemplation of death is an area on which most religions spend considerable contemplative energy. Few religions see death as final. Most include some notion of a continued existence of the entity that was the person we knew. The cynical explanation for this pervasive notion of an afterlife is our tenacious desire to live. We cling to life even in situations where the pain, desolation and loss would argue for letting go and sliding into death. We seem to have some sort of innate inclination to optimism that keeps us looking for a better tomorrow.

“If you can’t have it in life,” says the cynic, “Create it in death. Build yourself a heaven on the back of this God who has let all these terrible things happen in your life.”

That cynical perspective would carry more weight if religions all created cheerful, bucolic, happy afterlives. Some do – but almost always there are entrance requirements. Usually you have to have followed “the one true faith” as defined above. I mean think about it, let us say you are involved in one of our countless religious wars. You leave your home and family and travel off across the world to meet some heathen on a field of battle. You slay him or her in glorious battle, but then are struck down by some scurrilous spawn of Satan. It would be quite disconcerting to have to share your heavenly afterlife with the very same person you had just killed “for the glory of God.”

Similarly, there are all these additional requirements for folks “within the one true faith.” Again you wouldn’t want to have to share all eternity with the people who failed to follow the rituals properly or didn’t contribute enough to the building fund. Problematically, the entry requirements created by the various “one true faiths” are so tough that a lot of people won’t qualify and have to put “somewhere else.”

Dante sketched the various

circles of Hell these poor unfortunates had to occupy with something approaching unholy zeal. Finally, they are a number of faiths that define the afterlife as simply a dim mirror of this one. Shades wander about in a cold and lifeless forever. They are rarely acknowledged, but their existence is assumed and their ability to influence everyday life is feared. When we consider all these distasteful afterlives, it becomes more difficult to simply assert that religions create them to assuage our fear of death. Chord theory would assert that the individual face that each faith puts upon an afterlife is the trivial duality. That each faith includes an afterlife is strong evidence of a non-trivial duality among all faiths that warrants further thought.

Those were the thoughts that were bouncing around in my head as I pointed my car south down the interstate. I was heading home from a funeral that had been part saying goodbye to a woman I wished I had known better, and part saying hello to some old friends who had been long absent from my life. The rain swept back and forth across my windshield. I adjusted the seat to bring my eyes level with the four-inch wide swath of clarity provided by the aging single wiper which, for the most part, simply smeared the water around into more egalitarian patterns. Patti’s swift and unexpected death –

pancreatic cancer at 52 – had forced me back into considerations of the other two unjust deaths that had struck my life. My older brother Jim had died of a brain tumor at the age of 42 and my mother, one of the youngest of her generation of the family, had died suddenly of an aortic aneurism.

I did my normal radio scan for “music without words”

to help me think this issue through; but I was running through that part of southern Virginia and northern North Carolina where the radio stations were limited to C&C – Country or Christian. The tape deck is broken and the CD player I use only works with the tape player. I let the rhythm of the wipers swatting at the rain guide my thoughts.

What was this thing that I had learned to call the soul? It was one of precious few elements that most major faiths had in common: some aspect of an individual that was not terminated by death. Some distilled essence of their being that had existed in this world but had now moved into a different plane of existence and yet still retained the uniqueness acquired here. Slap, slap, slap went the wipers.

Slap, slap, slap. If it is a theory of everything, it has to be a theory of everything. It cannot be a theory of everything but the soul. String theory must explain everything. Chord theory positions that explanation in the landscape of the human heart. Slap, slap, slap. What is the soul? Where is the soul?

If the soul is unique, if only we possess our soul; then chord theory would say that the soul is the tuning we make of our own chord. The soul would be that unique construction that results from the interaction of our physical notes, environmental notes and that which we have already defined as the notes of the unconquerable soul. Those together become the living soul. The soul we seek to nurture everyday bringing it into greater harmony with the God Chord, the celestial chord. That is the soul as manifested in our daily behaviors and thoughts, by our ongoing convictions and beliefs – the actual total of all the strings set in motion by those behaviors, thoughts, convictions and beliefs. But what of the soul after life? Where is the soul in the absence of the body? What happens to that distilled essence of existence when existence ceases? The answer, it seems, would have to be that on some level existence does not cease. But how, and on what level? Slap, slap, slap. String theory grew out of a mandated rapprochement between the very big and the very little. Maybe our thinking is flawed by our presumption that we have already discovered in DNA and RNA the most elegant encapsulation of the unique. Perhaps the more important blueprint of individuality lies below the level of DNA

– smaller, yet more elegant and parsimonious.

When we ask ourselves if something else might encode our uniqueness better than DNA and RNA we begin to see some problematic issues with the DNA model of the individual. For all its magnificent complexity DNA is static. My DNA at the end of my life is the same as my DNA at the beginning of my life. Yet I am very different at the end of my life than I am at life’s beginning. Depending on the choices I have made in my life I am either far more resonant with the God Chord, or I have drifted into discord. The question becomes where does that entity – that tuned chord reside?

In a good faith assumption of symmetry, let us consider the existence of an essential chord. By an essential chord I mean a grouping of strings that encodes our tuning at any particular moment. A symphony is a very complex compilation of notes spread across perhaps hundreds of instruments. But a Symphony in C Minor is built around the essential chord C Minor. It is not beyond reason to envision a literal handful of strings that encodes our individual, unique, essential chord as it exists at any moment in time. Obviously I have no idea what the mechanism for the expression of such a chord might be. But then, how long has it taken us to figure out how the chemical patterns of DNA are expressed in a physical creature? Symmetry allows us to postulate that our essential chord would map the nature of the synthesis of our physical, environment and unconquerable soul notes. In an incredibly tiny package it would hold the blueprint of our beliefs, dreams, assumptions. It would be in its most elegant, elemental form; our chord, our harmony, our soul.

Yes, I am suggesting that the soul is an actual physical entity. A small cluster of strings that encode the chord we create in our life. Where does it reside? Again, I have no idea. It may well be as far flung as DNA. It could have a specific locale – but one that would have to be co-located with conscious existence. The brain would spring to mind since we have no evidence of anyone living without that particular organ. But the question of where the soul is located is of far less import to our current discussion than the question of where does the soul go when we die?

Slap, slap, slap. You’d think it would stop raining or I could find a classical or jazz station somewhere! But, no. Slap, slap, slap.

I think the notion of the soul in the world’s major faiths grows out of an attempt to explain real phenomena. Is there a degree of wish-fulfillment going on? Have the great faiths fostered this soul notion to allow us to immortalize our loved ones, and assure us of our own immortality? Maybe to a degree, but less than we might think at first blush. Remember a lot of those after-lives to which we consign souls are not very pleasant places. I think it is more likely that the concept of the soul became our way of articulating experiences with entities we could not perceive in normal modes, and hence could not describe as residing on our current plane of existence.

Like any other perception, bumping up against “an entity you cannot perceive in normal modes” is much easier to accept if you actually have the experience. Our personal experience may be unique and idiosyncratic but, the scientific method notwithstanding, it is amazingly persuasive. Neither my mother nor my brother lived close to me when they died. Like many modern families we had spread out across the country in search of “good jobs” and “success.” After their deaths I have come to feel their presence more closely than when they were alive. No, they don’t talk to me or appear in dreams to answer my pressing questions. But I have a clearer sense of their inclinations, of the sound of their chords than I had when they were alive but living far away –

when our lives were separated by all the demanding minutiae of life in the 20th century. That is what I mean by “an entity you cannot perceive in normal modes.” Sometimes my mother hovers so closely on my consciousness that, without thinking, I reach for the telephone to call her – just to clarify my thinking. She is that clearly still “in my life.”

So why? Slap, slap, slap. It has to be a theory of everything. Slap, slap, slap. Because, perhaps, just perhaps, the planes of existence are not as discrete as we think they are. Maybe we aren’t talking about different planes of existence. Maybe we are talking about different dimensions. Remember, string theory needs either six or seven additional spatial dimensions to work – and might be amenable to another time dimension as well. Greene devotes an entire chapter – Chapter 8: More Di- mensions than Meet the Eye –to these fascinating assertions. It could be that those additional dimensions aren’t just sitting there not doing anything, it could be they are quite accessible to the soul.

Slap, slap, slap. As I peer through the rain I remember a very different drive. I was on my way to work. It was a bright spring morning – I had the sunroof open and the windows down. The radio was bubbling with some classical guitar piece. I took an exit ramp from one major thoroughfare to another; the median was lined with white crepe myrtles in full bloom. As I traversed that short bit of roadway the most amazing thing happened. It seemed as though space and time wrinkled just a little bit. It seemed as though I was at the beginning, middle and end of the ramp simultaneously. I could see each tree with great clarity regardless of its order in the row of plantings. Furthermore the view seemed unobstructed by the car. Visually it was as if I were levitating alongside the trees. And then there I was at the stop sign at the end of the ramp.

“Whoa,” I remember thinking. “That was a little surreal.” And no, I don’t do drugs. A martini is as wild as I get these days. It’s been more than thirty years since I did so much as smoke a little weed. I blame it on Brian Greene. I had been thinking about the whole notion of his “hidden dimensions” the day before and naturally that little incident returned me to those ruminations with a vengeance. I wondered what the nature of those dimensions might be. I had a brief glimpse of three dimensions called “Wazz,” “Up,” and “Dude” where the maximum rate of speed was the speed of thought. That dimensional construction allowed me, as I traversed the road next to the trees, to move instantaneously between whichever trees caught my fancy. “Yeah, right!” I chastised myself as I drove off to work. Since the incident with the trees and Patti’s funeral I have reread Chapter 8 a couple of times. And while loathe to let go of WazzUpDudeland, I have reeled my fancies in somewhat. Still, the idea of the soul as this tiny signature cluster of strings oscillating between dimensions remains intriguing. What might the nature of those dimensions be if they could house – in a meaningful way – the strings of the soul? Three different, but not necessarily exclusive, possibilities keep occurring to me. I call them The Whoville Dimensions, The Dimensions Under the Bed and The Time Share Zipper Dimensions.

The Whoville Dimensions come directly out of Greene’s discussions. Apparently the mathematics of string theory finds that best place to put these additional six or seven dimensions is to curl them up into tiny little intricate six-dimensional forms called Calabi-Yau shapes or spaces – named for the mathematicians whose work is central to the definition and properties of these shapes. If you google “calabi-yau shape “ you can see some lovely examples. But as you look at those images we need to keep a few things in mind – these spaces are incredibly small, have six dimensions, and are everywhere. As Greene puts it:

That is, at every point in the three familiar

extended dimensions, string theory claims

there are six hitherto unanticipated dimensions, tightly curled up into one of these rather complicated-looking shapes …

These

dimensions are an integral and ubiquitous

part of the space fabric; they exist everywhere. For instance, if you sweep your hand in a large arc, you are moving not only

through the three extended dimensions, but

also through these curled up dimensions. Of

course, because the curled up dimensions are

so small, as you move your hand you circumnavigate them an enormous number of times, … (Greene p. 208).

I am simultaneously intrigued and troubled by these tiny dimensions as those spaces into which the soul migrates after the rest of our physical body ceases to function. They are intriguing in that they are predicted by the math of string theory, and ubiquitous. That would certainly account for my occasional sensing of the resonance of my mother or my brother all around me. They are troubling in the “Whovilleness” of it all. For those of you who do not share my lingering obsession with children’s literature; Whoville is a creation of the late Dr. Suess. In his classic work, Horton Hears a Who, Suess creates an entire world on a speck of dust, inhabited by Whos who are incredibly small.

Only Horton the

Elephant can hear them and intervenes to save their tiny little lives.

While I realize that strings fit comfortably into CalabiYau shapes, I am uncomfortable with the notion of positing consciousness into so tiny a space; remembering that it is not a single soul that must migrate into these tiny complex spaces, but rather all souls at some time in the course of their tuning must occupy these dimensions. I realize this may well be the incredibly naïve blatant

“size-ism” of the mathematically challenged; but stuffing the vast complexity of the soul into the confines of a tiny Calabi-Yau shape just bothers me.

To explain that discomfort I need to clarify my nascent conception of the soul as an elegant collection of essential strings. The soul takes on this elemental form during periods of transition from one existence to another. The reduction of the unique chord to this most condensed form eliminates the physical “baggage” of the rest of the body; allowing the essential soul to move across barriers that would be impenetrable by the huge corporeal entity that we occupy in this life. Once the transition between dimensions is completed the soul is

“re-manifested” in whatever form is appropriate to those new dimensions.

It is the re-manifestation of the soul within the confines of the tiny Cabali-Yau shapes that concerns me –

the building of Whoville on a speck of dust. I realize that I cannot conceive of the minuteness of strings. On the other hand I remember that way back on page 18 we realized that Sally the Kangaroo eventually hits the wall, we remember that: There is a limit to the infinites- imal, there is a “smallest particle” that cannot be broken down into any smaller components and that particle is a vibrating string. We do not want to reenact the initial error of the advocates of the very tiny and posit a world with no room for the necessary manifestation of the soul. Being unfettered by any knowledge of the advanced mathematics that underlies string theory, I would like to suggest a couple of alternatives to the Calabi-Yau shapes as potential destination dimensions for the oscillating soul. The suggestions grow out of my sense of what would be harmonious in chord theory while not being overtly discordant with string theory. Furthermore, if chord theory and string theory really do share non-trivial dualities; then these chord theory-based suggestions should have some counterparts in string theory. If that is true there should be at least the inkling of a hypothesis that string theorists could flesh out and address. The Dimensions Under the Bed. This notion grows from the idea that we cannot sense the other dimensions necessary for the math of string theory because they are

– surprise! – in other dimensions. You remember when you were a kid? We all had monsters when we were kids. We still have then as adults – we just give them different names. The one in vogue as I write this is

“issues.” People now have “issues,” which seem to be grown-up monsters. Anyhow, as kids we turned our issues into monsters and stuck them somewhere out of sight. Under the bed was good. In the closet worked. Across the hall in my sister’s room was a strategy I liked. The idea was you put them somewhere and then you didn’t look there.

The Dimensions Under the Bed potential for destination dimensions has to do with the idea of where the physicists are looking for them. I mean I have all kinds of respect for the work these men and women are doing. They think about stuff that makes your brain hurt, and they have – after all – given us string theory that I obviously love. But I do need to remember that Greene pointed out that these are the same folks who spent a lot of years wondering around blind to the inconsistencies between the math of the very big and the math of the very little. So maybe a question from outside the tribe might prove valuable.

The question I have that lies at the heart of the Dimensions Under the Bed assertion and deals with symmetry. Remember way back at the beginning of the book and we were looking at the physics that underlies string theory? I said:

Physicists are particularly grateful for the existence of symmetry in the universe since, without it, their work would becomes exercises in insanity. What good is it to decipher the speed of light, if it can change at the next moment? Or in the next county? How do you

plot the trajectory of a moon launch if you

have no way of knowing if the parameters

that allow you to calculate the effect of gravity are different on the moon, or if they will be

different next month when the launch is

scheduled to take place.

Symmetry, by asserting the consistency of the basic laws of nature, is the sanity of the universe.

Well, I was pretty much taking Greene’s word for it. I mean the guy is very, very good at what he does. But now, all these pages later a question does occur to me. It has to do with a distinction between non- conforming and non- conflicting physics. I understand that we can’t go around shifting the rules of physics in our dimensions, in the universe as we experience it. But do the rules of physics have to be the same in the other dimensions predicted by string theory? Do those have to conform with the laws of physics as we understand them, or do they just have to not conflict with the rules of physics in our dimensions? If conformity is not imperative, if lack of conflict is the primary criterion then we may be “looking for love in all the wrong places.” There may be spaces for those other dimensions in places in which we have yet to consider looking. It isn’t so much that the physicists have hidden these dimensions under the bed and refuse to look for them. What seems a more accurate description is the assertion that they have decided in advance under which bed the dimensions have hidden and refuse to look under any others. Greene says, “Years of research, dating back to Kaluza’s original paper, have shown that even though any extra dimensions that physicists propose must be smaller than we or our equipment can directly “see” (since we haven’t seen them), they do have important indirect effects on the physics that we observe.” (p. 205). Sounds like “Here is the bed, look under here.” That strikes me as a whole lot like the big/ little blindness that string theory set out to resolve, especially if there is any feasibility to the idea of nonconflicting, non-conforming physics in the other dimensions. Maybe the physicists should look under some other beds. The Time-Share Zipper Dimensions. I would be hardpressed to come up with the “most mind-bending thought” to come out of Greene’s book; but this one would certainly hover near the top of the list: Third, given the requirements of numerous

extra dimensions, is it possible that some are additional time dimensions, as opposed to additional space dimensions? If you think about this for a moment, you will see that it is truly a bizarre possibility. (Greene, p. 204).

Bizarre doesn’t even scratch the surface. Think about it this way, if time can run at two different speeds, or three for that matter then there may be no need for other spatial dimensions. Time just jogs the spatial dimensions so they don’t conflict with each other. Look at a zipper. Think of the teeth of the zipper as the spatial dimensions that we live in everyday. Each side of the zipper is a different time dimension. Now zip the zipper up and you can see how the two identical spatial universes could fit snuggly with one another, just jogged apart enough by the time dimension to keep them from conflicting with each other. A third time dimension would add a third row of teeth to the zipper, etc. Another way to think about it is as a “time-share” universe. The spatial dimensions are the condo, your time dimension is the week you get to use it. During those other time dimensions someone else is using the condo. Like I said, bizarre doesn’t even scratch the surface.

So why does it matter? Why not just accept the notion of the tightly curled up incredibly tiny Calabi-Yau shapes as proposed by the string theorists and be done with it? Well, it has to do with the expanding universe and the evolution of the soul. Remember I got into this whole issue of other dimensions to find possible destinations for the physical soul – that uniquely tuned cluster of strings – to inhabit after our physical body stops functioning in these dimensions. The Calabi-Yau shapes option forces the soul into a much smaller “developmental space” than the one we currently occupy and that seems quite asymmetrical in its own right.

I know that seems a lot like forcing science into religion, letting the metaphysical dictate the physics. Maybe, but then again maybe not. Science demands replication: a number of observed instances yielding the same result. Those results drive a hypothesis that is further tested. If, as chord theory strongly implies, the distinction between physics and metaphysics is in large measure trivial duality; then repeated similar results from the metaphysical laboratory might well drive legitimate hypotheses in physics. These are the intersecting bits of physics and metaphysics that make me uncomfortable with stuffing the soul into the Calabi-Yau shape dimensions. First, the notion of the soul repeats and repeats in the metaphysical belief structure of the world. In major faiths, splinter denominations and cults the concern for “that which can be godlike” in all of us remains. Furthermore this soul is most often defined as unique to each individual and the behaviors and belief of the individual determine the health and future viability of the soul.

String theory allows us to assert that a combination our DNA/RNA and choices we make in our lives allow us to tune the strings that underlie our physical/emotional/ intellectual selves. Chord theory asserts that this tuning seeks to bring us into harmony with the music of the spheres, the harmonic universe that is an ongoing composition of specific intentional design. The design is manifested in many physical forms, but underlying each of those physical forms are tiny vibrating strings. The design of the universe is music. We seek to align our chord with that design.

The universe, as we currently experience it, is expanding. That is completely symmetrical with the notion of music. Music cannot stop. We can take a freeze frame from a movie, we can photograph a dance, we can paint a sunrise and at least capture a facsimile of the experience. Music is created by vibration, if you stop the vibration, the music stops. There is no freeze frame for music. Hence, the universe must continue to expand. To collapse it would have to reach an instant of stasis between expansion and collapse and it that moment of freeze frame it would cease to exist.

Similarly, the soul – the unique collection of strings we create in the living of our lives – continues to evolve toward harmony with the God Chord. Sentience is no accident, the intellect no random event, the harmony we sense with the departed is no illusion. The confluence of evidence favors design, consciousness, intent on a level that permeates, no, that is every corner of the universe. The soul is our piece in that design. An explanation that places the soul outside the Calabi-Yau shapes, and into some sort of expanding time-share zipper dimension where active tuning is advantaged, is preferable to the seemingly constrained world of those tiny spaces. The math may be awkward, but the overall symmetry argues for a further exploration.

That then, is where God fits in – everywhere. Not as an objective. Not as a static set of rules to be followed. Certainly not as an organization, committees, and an imposing edifice. But rather as an extant, yet evolving, harmonic composition in which we are free to contribute our own on-going song.

3

Chapter

New chapter

From the same author on Feedbooks:

• " Zen From the Heartland" (2009) www.feedbooks.com

Food for the mind

Document Outline

Part 1 - Foreword Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Table of Contents

Part 1

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

Chapter

