

Charles H NDE 4084 English expanded version 8/29/2009 As I heard the sirens, I was gone. I felt my last gasp, then all the pain was gone. As I was looking down, I heard the man say to the paramedics, "He's gone." They went to work on me, chest compressions, breathing into my mouth, no pulse. I was there above them watching. I heard a voice in the light. It said to me, "It's time." I said, "No! Please my babies. I need to raise my babies!" All I could think of was my three babies ages 4, 3, and 2 yrs old at home. The light said, "If you go back, you won't like it." I said, "I have to. Please. My babies need me!" I was watching my body there. All this happening so fast. NDE due to being run over by a truck

Michael A NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I was floating in a non physical form toward a blue/purple gas planet. I felt so much love and understanding words cannot express. my second image and was one of the most realistic feeling, I was there in physical form riding on the front of a old sailing ship. I could smell food cooking and I felt the presence of something telling me I need to "Go back and learn to LOVE the right way". NDE from accident and head injury

Jason NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I was not drawn to a light or a life review or even a tunnel of light. I do remember seeing what seemed to be angels of some sort or clerics in white robes leaning over me where I lay. I saw what looked like a field and a piece of the track I was laying on in the physical realm. I do believe that what they gave me was a book and on the cover of this book it said "book of prophecies" and ever since that day I have been more aware of things changing that should not have changed or have the need to change. NDE from bicycle accident...but not the usual imagery

Victor B NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I dimmed into light, aware that I was floating among the branches and leaves of the oak trees above me. Everything was quiet; I could hear and feel the wind rustling through the leaves. It seemed totally natural that I should be free of my body in this state. I had no desire to look upon myself crumpled within the wreckage of my bicycle. I do remember feeling sorry for that poor little boy and the injuries he sustained. As a matter of fact, this felt like my real place in the cosmos and I was ready to go forth, even if it meant never seeing my family again. Then I heard something coming from above me. ³Angels!² I screamed with delight. The heavenly chorus was so sweet and loving that to this day, whenever I hear a choir hitting just the right notes, I well up with tears remembering that sweet emotional moment of unbridled joy when I realized I must be dead and the angels were coming for me. NDE from bicycle accident.

Elizabeth NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 Original in Spanish, from Puerto Rico, translated to English by Simon A. 'm told that I fainted. I felt I was looking in front of me, and all I could see was a silhouette standing before me. It was the most attractive presence, I felt it was the most beautiful man I had seen in my life. He seemed to be naked, but I could only see the silhouette standing there in front of me as if he did not want me to go in that direction. Because the bright light was behind him, I couldn't see his face, the light was shining from behind him towards me as if to light him up. NDE from drug overdose.

Stu B NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 I clearly remember the wonderful bliss as I moved in a vortex toward a very bright light and looked down from above the water and saw myself laying spread on the floor of the pool as I turned around and went back to the color blobs and through the tunnel toward the beautiful light. I believe that after awhile there was an abrupt feeling of being sucked back. And the pain and misery set in as I was being jumped on and slapped by a man who was trying to revive me. I wanted to go back. I was so young but the few conscious memories I have are still vivid in my mind like it happened yesterday. Child Drowning NDE.

Eric D Probable NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 The most vivid part of the experience was at one point I could see my mother holding me in her arms. She looked very sad, yet accepting. It appeared she was on the verge of crying but she wasn't because she knew I was going on to a better place. Slowly, I began to sink down away from her and I could see geometric shapes below me against a black background. They were a silverish blue in color of various rectangular sizes. I said farewell to my family and friends one by one. Probable NDE from bicycle accident.

Leonard NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Original in French, from Canada, translated to English by Jean Peter. God then showed me all my life from birth till NDE. I felt and experienced again all these events and I also felt emotions I had raised in others. I was my only judge! This experience was very painful. I dare not imagine what Adolf Hitler underwent when feeling the pain of millions of individuals… God showed me when I had generously done things without thinking about it beforehand, and when I had done unloving things. I even saw myself steeling sweets in a shop, thinking to myself, “Whew, nobody saw me!” But indeed somebody saw me… Yes God saw me! But he does not judge me. In fact this is what hit me the most: God does not judge, he just loves us with unconditional love, this love is indescribable, it is not like what we feel on earth, this is rather a force-love. NDE from a heart attack.

Bonnie M NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Then a mist of light in the middle of where I was going. And all at once I was in front of these beings of light, they were much more taller than I and I can't say that I saw faces or arms just outlines sort of. Between us was a table like from the Flintstones cartoon in that it looked to be out of a flat stone with stone stools holding it up from underneath. I was directed to come closer, not by hearing sounds but by more of a feeling direction on coming closer. NDE from a bowel rupture.

Renato B NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 From the Philippines I went to a cave and saw my long lost relatives. prior to the event I was vomiting blood, and was diagnosed with brain abscess. while in Jose Reyes Hospital after vomiting blood and suffering from mild stroke, I left my body, I went inside a cave and I saw my ancestors, several of them, they where all seated on the floor, the cave was black, my ancestors wore all body white clothing, they did not speak, they stared at me and when my mother shouted "champorado" in the ICU, I left the cave and my ancestors slowly receded from my view. Short NDE from stroke and blood loss.

Stacy R NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 I distinctly remember myself (my body) hovering above the scene that was taking place below. My vision was in black and white and there was no bright light or "light tunnel" as they say. I could draw you a picture of exactly where I was laying right now to this day without question. The EMT did not extract the nickel - but my mom had now arrived and before the EMT could perform the tracheotomy needed, my mom pounded on my back like a mad woman and the coin came flying out. NDE when she was 5 years old.

Michael B NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 When I had been thrown out of the fire I hit a picnic table with my head. Due to the severity of my burns and the head trauma my Father told me in later years that the Doctors did not expect me to live. I remember being taken to the X-ray room because the size of the tragedy had overwhelmed the Emergency Room. I remember then walking with my Mother in beautiful light towards a source of Great goodness and Love, just as we were about to be bathed in the Light my Mother knelt and hugged me, she told me she Loved me, that it was not my time yet. She then crossed into the Light. Shared NDE with a 5 year old child and his mother.

Ki R Possible NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 I looked ahead and there was a vast almost panoramic line of light stretched across space I could see blackness above it and blackness below as I got closer to this light which sort of looked like the sun shining through a thick opaque type of glass it was very comforting and not painful to look at like the sun. as I got further is when the overwhelming sense of my body absorbing all of this light it engulfed me it washed me it filled me up with such love I cannot explain there is no word stronger than love here on earth to describe it. I know now that this was god. as I got closer I could see silhouette shapes of people all lined up along the vastness of this light and that was it. She didn't die, but all the classic NDE elements are there.

John P NDE 4065 English expanded version 8/15/2009 While drifting in the darkness and bitter cold (wanting my mother), I felt a warmth coming from behind me, Although I saw no body, I somehow turned and saw a fuzzy light. which seem to be giving off the warmth, to what was now my front. (my back was still bitter cold.) I started (somehow) moving towards the light. The closer I got to the light the warmer I got, the warmer I got the more I knew. I started recalling what I thought were embarrassing moments in my life, only to understand why they happened. The closer to the light the less I wanted to return home. It got to a point I understood everything and forgot about my previous life. NDE from a possible heart attack.

Lisa Possible NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Woke up suddenly at like 3:00 AM. Was looking down at my body and aware of a presence sort of to my right and behind me. Realized (not really visual, but could somehow see him?) that Jesus was there. It surprised me, as I was agnostic. We began a communication/transmission. Like we didn't speak, yet I could hear his voice somehow. Possible NDE from pneumonia and anorexia.

Lynne S NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I felt wonderful, no pain, no worries. I noted that the tops of the walls faded into blackness and I could see the stars above. I noticed a large window below me, and somehow received the thought that I could go home for a minute if I wished. My marriage was not very good at the time, and I decided not to visit my home before leaving. NDE due to childbirth complications

Charles H NDE 4084 English expanded version 8/29/2009 As I heard the sirens, I was gone. I felt my last gasp, then all the pain was gone. As I was looking down, I heard the man say to the paramedics, "He's gone." They went to work on me, chest compressions, breathing into my mouth, no pulse. I was there above them watching. I heard a voice in the light. It said to me, "It's time." I said, "No! Please my babies. I need to raise my babies!" All I could think of was my three babies ages 4, 3, and 2 yrs old at home. The light said, "If you go back, you won't like it." I said, "I have to. Please. My babies need me!" I was watching my body there. All this happening so fast. NDE due to being run over by a truck

Michael A NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I was floating in a non physical form toward a blue/purple gas planet. I felt so much love and understanding words cannot express. my second image and was one of the most realistic feeling, I was there in physical form riding on the front of a old sailing ship. I could smell food cooking and I felt the presence of something telling me I need to "Go back and learn to LOVE the right way". NDE from accident and head injury

Jason NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I was not drawn to a light or a life review or even a tunnel of light. I do remember seeing what seemed to be angels of some sort or clerics in white robes leaning over me where I lay. I saw what looked like a field and a piece of the track I was laying on in the physical realm. I do believe that what they gave me was a book and on the cover of this book it said "book of prophecies" and ever since that day I have been more aware of things changing that should not have changed or have the need to change. NDE from bicycle accident...but not the usual imagery

Victor B NDE English expanded version 8/29/2009 I dimmed into light, aware that I was floating among the branches and leaves of the oak trees above me. Everything was quiet; I could hear and feel the wind rustling through the leaves. It seemed totally natural that I should be free of my body in this state. I had no desire to look upon myself crumpled within the wreckage of my bicycle. I do remember feeling sorry for that poor little boy and the injuries he sustained. As a matter of fact, this felt like my real place in the cosmos and I was ready to go forth, even if it meant never seeing my family again. Then I heard something coming from above me. ³Angels!² I screamed with delight. The heavenly chorus was so sweet and loving that to this day, whenever I hear a choir hitting just the right notes, I well up with tears remembering that sweet emotional moment of unbridled joy when I realized I must be dead and the angels were coming for me. NDE from bicycle accident.

Elizabeth NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 Original in Spanish, from Puerto Rico, translated to English by Simon A. 'm told that I fainted. I felt I was looking in front of me, and all I could see was a silhouette standing before me. It was the most attractive presence, I felt it was the most beautiful man I had seen in my life. He seemed to be naked, but I could only see the silhouette standing there in front of me as if he did not want me to go in that direction. Because the bright light was behind him, I couldn't see his face, the light was shining from behind him towards me as if to light him up. NDE from drug overdose.

Stu B NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 I clearly remember the wonderful bliss as I moved in a vortex toward a very bright light and looked down from above the water and saw myself laying spread on the floor of the pool as I turned around and went back to the color blobs and through the tunnel toward the beautiful light. I believe that after awhile there was an abrupt feeling of being sucked back. And the pain and misery set in as I was being jumped on and slapped by a man who was trying to revive me. I wanted to go back. I was so young but the few conscious memories I have are still vivid in my mind like it happened yesterday. Child Drowning NDE.

Eric D Probable NDE English expanded version 8/22/2009 The most vivid part of the experience was at one point I could see my mother holding me in her arms. She looked very sad, yet accepting. It appeared she was on the verge of crying but she wasn't because she knew I was going on to a better place. Slowly, I began to sink down away from her and I could see geometric shapes below me against a black background. They were a silverish blue in color of various rectangular sizes. I said farewell to my family and friends one by one. Probable NDE from bicycle accident.

Leonard NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Original in French, from Canada, translated to English by Jean Peter. God then showed me all my life from birth till NDE. I felt and experienced again all these events and I also felt emotions I had raised in others. I was my only judge! This experience was very painful. I dare not imagine what Adolf Hitler underwent when feeling the pain of millions of individuals… God showed me when I had generously done things without thinking about it beforehand, and when I had done unloving things. I even saw myself steeling sweets in a shop, thinking to myself, “Whew, nobody saw me!” But indeed somebody saw me… Yes God saw me! But he does not judge me. In fact this is what hit me the most: God does not judge, he just loves us with unconditional love, this love is indescribable, it is not like what we feel on earth, this is rather a force-love. Exceptional NDE from a heart attack.

Bonnie M NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Then a mist of light in the middle of where I was going. And all at once I was in front of these beings of light, they were much more taller than I and I can't say that I saw faces or arms just outlines sort of. Between us was a table like from the Flintstones cartoon in that it looked to be out of a flat stone with stone stools holding it up from underneath. I was directed to come closer, not by hearing sounds but by more of a feeling direction on coming closer. NDE from a bowel rupture.

Renato B NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 From the Philippines I went to a cave and saw my long lost relatives. prior to the event I was vomiting blood, and was diagnosed with brain abscess. while in Jose Reyes Hospital after vomiting blood and suffering from mild stroke, I left my body, I went inside a cave and I saw my ancestors, several of them, they where all seated on the floor, the cave was black, my ancestors wore all body white clothing, they did not speak, they stared at me and when my mother shouted "champorado" in the ICU, I left the cave and my ancestors slowly receded from my view. Short NDE from stroke and blood loss.

Stacy R NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 I distinctly remember myself (my body) hovering above the scene that was taking place below. My vision was in black and white and there was no bright light or "light tunnel" as they say. I could draw you a picture of exactly where I was laying right now to this day without question. The EMT did not extract the nickel - but my mom had now arrived and before the EMT could perform the tracheotomy needed, my mom pounded on my back like a mad woman and the coin came flying out. NDE when she was 5 years old.

Michael B NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 When I had been thrown out of the fire I hit a picnic table with my head. Due to the severity of my burns and the head trauma my Father told me in later years that the Doctors did not expect me to live. I remember being taken to the X-ray room because the size of the tragedy had overwhelmed the Emergency Room. I remember then walking with my Mother in beautiful light towards a source of Great goodness and Love, just as we were about to be bathed in the Light my Mother knelt and hugged me, she told me she Loved me, that it was not my time yet. She then crossed into the Light. Shared NDE with a 5 year old child and his mother.

Ki R Possible NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 I looked ahead and there was a vast almost panoramic line of light stretched across space I could see blackness above it and blackness below as I got closer to this light which sort of looked like the sun shining through a thick opaque type of glass it was very comforting and not painful to look at like the sun. as I got further is when the overwhelming sense of my body absorbing all of this light it engulfed me it washed me it filled me up with such love I cannot explain there is no word stronger than love here on earth to describe it. I know now that this was god. as I got closer I could see silhouette shapes of people all lined up along the vastness of this light and that was it. She didn't die, but all the classic NDE elements are there.

John P NDE 4065 English expanded version 8/15/2009 While drifting in the darkness and bitter cold (wanting my mother), I felt a warmth coming from behind me, Although I saw no body, I somehow turned and saw a fuzzy light. which seem to be giving off the warmth, to what was now my front. (my back was still bitter cold.) I started (somehow) moving towards the light. The closer I got to the light the warmer I got, the warmer I got the more I knew. I started recalling what I thought were embarrassing moments in my life, only to understand why they happened. The closer to the light the less I wanted to return home. It got to a point I understood everything and forgot about my previous life. NDE from a possible heart attack.

Lisa Possible NDE English expanded version 8/15/2009 Woke up suddenly at like 3:00 AM. Was looking down at my body and aware of a presence sort of to my right and behind me. Realized (not really visual, but could somehow see him?) that Jesus was there. It surprised me, as I was agnostic. We began a communication/transmission. Like we didn't speak, yet I could hear his voice somehow. Possible NDE from pneumonia and anorexia.

Phillip O NDE English expanded version 8/11/2009 I found myself outside my room at the nurses station. I heard a mighty rushing wind to my right I saw an angel flying toward me. As he flew by, there where other angels covered with light following him. The first angel I saw him from head to toe. He was very large with big fat cheeks. He had muscles on top of muscles. He was clothed in white and had huge large white wings. He flew by several times with the angels that was covered with light. All I could see of them were their wings barely sticking out of the light. The fear had left me. I felt pure energy going through me and peace and love. The angel that led the others stopped as I gazed upon him. I was in awe. His eyes were not like ours but had a slit from top to bottom with different colors. He told me to hop on. I told him I wasn't ready to go . . . NDE from bleeding out in the hospital. Experience filled with Christian imagery.

Geralyn AS NDE English expanded version 8/11/2009 During this, I began rising, and all at once it seemed as though I knew everything there was to know. It seemed as if all the mysteries of the world were being revealed. I understood science, math, life! Simultaneously, I could see people below me in other rooms, I saw my grandmother and great-aunt crying outside the operating area, I saw other patients being treated in other surgery rooms, I saw people outside the hospital. I saw so much and I continued to rise. 2 NDEs. One from cancer surgery, and one from drug overdose. The first experience was pleasant...the second hellish.

David J NDE English expanded version 8/10/2009 I find myself with no sensation in a black void, and someone calls out to me. and how did I know it was to me. I don't know, but I knew it was to me. He said, "Are you back, already?" That was when I saw the light. It was a bright, round, blue white some distance away. It felt right, to me, that he was there, in the light. I wanted to see who it was that had called out to me, and it seemed because I wanted to see who was there, the light started to look closer. I have no idea if I moved to the light or the light moved toward me, all I know is the light got larger until I was in it. NDE from electrocution.

Pattie T NDE English expanded version 8/10/2009 I remember looking both ways then starting to cross...I still don't know if it was just a dream but it didn't feel like it...it felt like I was there...it was so real....... all of a sudden I'm in this beautiful place....such a beautiful landscape...the colors were so vivid....it was full of trees and flowers and the smell from the flowers..... I saw people walking in this garden and a white building in the middle of this wonderful place. I started walking towards the people and the building when I saw this one man....he seemed so full of love and tenderness. NDE from bicycle accident

Charis M NDE English expanded version 8/9/2009 But at some point during this time I remember (this is the only thing I remember clearly) floating in my hospital room looking down from above at my body in the hospital bed. its like I was laying on top of my unconscious body , head to head , toe to toe , just not touching it, floating in the air. I didn't know if my body was dead or unconscious. There was nobody else in the room and I clearly remember saying, "wow. Im really dead." , but no real words would come out, it was just thoughts. I seriously thought it was all over. NDE from suicide attempt.

Pam F NDE English expanded version 8/9/2009 While all of this was happening, I mostly remember being a spectator, only not above it all, but from table level. I remember bright, bright lights, lots of arms and hands moving quickly over me and mostly faces but not whole faces. Just faces from the nose up and worried looking eyes and expressions. I don't remember any noise, just complete silence. After awhile, I remember pulling out the oxygen tube and screaming "AIR!!". The next thing I remember was waking up in my room feeling completely exhausted and drained. NDE during surgery.

Lorie NDE English expanded version 8/9/2009 From Australia I was violently shaking from shock, losing blood and medication to stop the bleeding. I started to drift into a sleep and awoke in a different place. I was still lying on the bed but everything was white, there seemed to be no walls or roof, just endless white. There were 2 ladies on either side of me and one man at the foot of my bed. They were all dressed in white. The man was of Asian origin and his hair was plaited and so was his beard. He was chanting something at me. As if he was telling me I had a choice to make and counting down to the time left. Live or die. When I 1st entered this stage I felt at peace and warm and didn't want to go back. But after remembering that I had just given birth and had my eldest daughter also, I wanted to go back. I tried my hardest to go back. NDE from blood loss giving birth.

Mustapha M NDE English expanded version 8/8/2009 From Algeria, Original in French translated by Simon A Then all of a sudden I could see myself floating within the water, in an incredible calmness and physical and psychological relaxation. I could see this body, very calm, drifting slowly, and also saw bubbles coming out of its mouth. The scene was very real, but with an intense luminosity. I could see everything under the water, as if I had a diving mask on. My vision was near 300 degrees. It was like being a short distance from my body, but I could also see what was happening behind me. I noticed small details: pebbles which were ochre-colored (like fragments of house-tiles), also light-colored and striped pebbles, on the seabed, seaweed floating beneath the surface. The rest was sand. There were also small, almost translucent fish just under the surface, which were moving, then disappeared with a sudden flick of the tail. Drowning NDE.

Valerie L NDE English expanded version 8/8/2009 From France, Original in French translated by Jean Peter This is when I had my experience. I don’t know the exact date. I first saw myself as some sort of big smoke. That time I did not went out of my body; it was me but not in my body. I tried to see my arms, my legs, nothing. I could only see myself as smoke. I turned around in some sort of concrete swimming pool, and I was not alone there. Somebody else turned around with me. But I did not talk to him, I did not even try to, we turned around clockwise. I don’t know how I came back into my body (later I was told that I was in ICU and the person in the room next to mine was in a coma, maybe that was him, I don’t know).

Chantal T NDE English expanded version 7/25/2009 From France, Original in French translated by Jean Peter The voice talked to me again. No judgment, no blame, soothing sweetness, extraordinary tenderness, nothing else. I had the choice to “go” or to stay, as incredible as it seems, all depended upon my choice, she guided and helped me, that’s all! I knew this too, as if I were on another plane of consciousness. “You did not complete what you had to do yet (this was no blame).” I knew it. I just answered, “I did not know it would be so hard.” Then the voice told me, “Think to A. (my husband) and to the children.” NDE from a concussion.

Annie B NDE English expanded version 7/25/2009 From France, Original in French translated by Simon A. Suddenly I found myself at the end of a dark tube (I don't know how I got to this point). There was a very luminous, blue light, with a fuzzy look. I saw many people coming towards me. When they were quite close, I recognized my mother (deceased 1995) with my father (ditto 1972), my grandparents (1966 and 1971), my great-grandmother (1970) together with my great-grandfather, whom I never knew. All of them, and me too, were about 35 years old. All, and me too, were dressed in a blue tunic tied at the waist by a cord. There were also many other people that I had no time to recognize. They were all welcoming towards me. When Mom came near me, she said: "It's not your time to come here now; you still have things to do on earth. Go back and fight". This was not the kind of language my mother used, previously. NDE from a pedestrian accident with an automobile.

Miguel G NDE English expanded version 7/18/2009 From Spain, Original in Spanish translated by Simon A. That was when I thought: How could you be so stupid, you've finally done it, damned drugs! and I saw how the person in the front seat turned round and looked at me with a very scared expression, then I felt a sort of explosion in my chest and my heart stopped. My sight misted over and I left my body like a gunshot into the darkness. I was very scared and fully conscious that I was dying. I thought that in a few moments everything would be finished, as the state of lucidity I had for the moment must be from the adrenalin which my body had surely secreted due to panic. Suddenly I found myself floating, I could hear and feel a sort of vibration, a buzzing, very pleasant and relaxing. I realized that around me were floating some strange and colored globes, very bright and strange, spinning on themselves slowly and all moving in the same direction as though pulled by some force. I looked in that direction and there was a warm, brilliant, white light. Died from drug overdose.

Zoraida C Possible NDE English expanded version 7/13/2009 From Bolivia, Original in Spanish translated by Simon A. I saw dimly, but heard the shouts quite clearly, then getting further away. I went through a black tunnel which had red lights, and heard voices, without being able to make out whose they were. I felt cramps, then I relaxed. Then I heard a voice, which was my grandmother, deceased 11 years before. She wanted to take my hand, and other voices were calling me too, but I didn't recognize them. I felt no fear. Suddenly I again heard the cries of my parents, but far away, and I concentrated on listening to them without knowing that they were calling for me.

Bobbi D NDE English expanded version 7/9/2009 The greatest emphasis of this experience is LOVE. You are so totally engulfed with a love that does not exist in our physical world. No matter how deep a love you feel for your children, it does not compare with this love. This love is the purest, truest, deepest, totally unconditional love that you could EVER imagine. Now, I realize you may be saying "that's what I feel for my children." I'd say that too. But, it goes way beyond what these words can describe. And I think this is because it is communicated to you in the form of feelings. It knocks your socks off. When you receive this love, it is not comprehended with your mind. It is FELT by your soul. And that immense feeling of this perfect love shoots straight into your heart, as a feeling that you experience. It can bring your soul to it's knees, in a sense, with a quick swoosh of sensation. Now, this is not overwhelming in a bad way. It is totally overwhelming in the best way imaginable. Once you have a taste of it, you will forever be changed. NDE at age 17 due to apparent infectious illness and coded during surgery.

Jen V NDE-Like English expanded version 7/9/2009 I was slowly aware of a light ahead of me. I seemed to be pulled along toward it. There were stairs in front of me but I wasn't aware of using them...they were just there. Along the sides of me were other people who were in the darkness that were trying to climb up but couldn't and seemed stuck in a huge mass of themselves. All things that happened next seemed to happen all at once, or in very fast succession. I came into the light. The light was so brilliant but not warm nor cold. It was almost as if it consumed me. A feeling of Love so powerful and consuming, washed over me. It was so potent that you could almost reach out and touch it. A group of people came toward me with warm greetings. They spoke to me with thought and I knew they were like me but I could not focus on facial features. They were to, consumed by the light and it spread from each of them. As I was aware of them welcoming me, I was also then aware that there seemed to be some confusion that I shouldn't be there and was told it was not my time and that I should return to finish my life's work. NDE-like experience at age 16. Very life-changing.

Mr. W NDE English expanded version 7/9/2009 I became aware of my senses at that moment and how much more detailed everything seemed and how it all appeared more focused and more sharp. It was like I was seeing the world for the first time with my own true eyes. It was the equivalent of taking off a pair of foggy ski-goggles or glasses. The colors seemed flat and muted but considering the lights were off in my normally pitch-black room I was astonished to be seeing everything with such clarity. I also recall hearing cars on the main road a good half mile from my house and also hearing the television upstairs on the other end of the house. I could hear my father and grandfather speaking as if I were in the same room. This was abnormal in that my room was below ground in the basement and when I shut my door the room was so quiet all I could normally hear was my own breathing. Likewise there were no windows and the room was completely dark. I felt as though I had been liberated from my body and being outside my body freed me from the limitations imposed by a physical existence. My mind felt cleared and my thoughts seemed quick and decisive. NDE due to suicide attempt with massive overdose of Coumadin (a powerful blood thinner).

Carlos CP NDE English expanded version 6/10/2009 From Spain, original in Spanish, translated to English by Simon A. Suddenly I saw myself floating (I never saw my physical body), amazed, asking myself: What's this? Where am I? I was floating, without a body, but still I could move around, in short I had an "I". I spent some time feeling disconcerted, it was like a dream but I still remember it as being too real to be a dream. Then all of a sudden I found myself in a room, where my mother, and one of my aunts who was not in the hospital at the time, were weeping inconsolably, seated on maroon-coloured, very brightly-coloured, armchairs. At this point I said to myself: Ah, that means I'm dead! And I started to feel a peace and wellbeing which is indescribable. Child NDE.

Mari Luz CB NDE English expanded version 6/10/2009 From Spain, original in Spanish, translated to English by Simon A. I was looking down on the whole schoolyard from above, as though floating in the air, and could see my fellow-players weeping and crying out. I was to their right, the teacher had his back to me, kneeling over a girl who was laid out on the ground. Approaching, I asked what was going on, but nobody answered me. The teacher was shaking her and slapping her with the palm of his hand on her face, and at this point I realised that the girl on the ground being slapped was me. I had my mouth open and my eyes were open too, but vacant. The teacher (at the same time as he tried to revive me) was shouting, Oh my God, Oh my God, wake up... From my position (above and to the right of the whole scene) I could see everything that happened over the whole schoolyard with great clarity, the children and the people by the fence. Child NDE.

Cynthia Y NDE English expanded version 6/7/2009 I saw everything that has ever happened since the beginning of the Big Bang. like the discovery channel. I saw everything the whole universe from the beginning of time. And time is something humans made up, there is no such thing as time this is all a series of events. It was like a big paisley of cosmos being formed in front of me and I had superman vision. ( I told a friend what I saw and he turned me on to fractals it looked like that) I was hanging in the dark space and our universe was below me like a teacup saucer inside of a 33 gallon trash bag. I was in the bag still. I was beyond the far reaches of the universe. beyond the universe looking at it with superman vision and I could see earth and my house and inside it and all from a bazillion gagillion light years past the edge of the universe. it was really amazing. NDE due to respiratory arrest from asthma.

Jacqueline M Father's Experiences English expanded version 6/7/2009 Dad relayed to me what happened just prior to Danny taking his last breath, Dad saw 2 large Angels enter the room and stand on either side of the bed not touching the ground, Dad heard Danny take his last breath and then Danny with the 2 Angels stood at the foot of Dads bed. One of the angels said to Dad we will be back for you in 2 weeks time. Dad died exactly 2 weeks to the day that Danny died. He told me that when he saw Danny's' soul that he was happy and rejuvenated. Another thing Dad told me do not be afraid of death as it is like walking through a door. Several experiences in the spectrum of NDE.

John C Probable NDE English expanded version 6/7/2009 I have learned much throughout my life; however, my learning curve was significantly more - steep during and immediately after my coma. Here are some of the insights/revelations that were shared with me. My life did "flash" before me; however this "review" did not stop at my birth. My recollection was going back in time and "space" well before my birth. A time and place best described as Eden-like. I have a "recollection" of landing at the bottom of a significant hill in a "sea" of "people" I then climbed to the crest of the hill passed between two rocks and "interacted" with two human-like "persons" They communicated to me in unison... Probable NDE due to apparent brain hemorrhage.

Cynthia M NDE English expanded version 6/7/2009 I opened my back door to get air and when I looked outside there was this beautiful blue-white light coming from the sky. I could see very far as if a nuclear bomb had went off outside. It was 3:30am and I could see for miles it seemed. I couldn't hear anything and it was so peaceful. I wasn't afraid. Which surprises me. A picture of my daughters flashed in my mind I guess. My oldest first and then my youngest. I said the words GOD I am not ready. The light slowly started to return to the sky and my body took a deep breath. The paramedics arrived a few moments later and my BP was 226/182. NDE associated with severe high blood pressure.

Brandy M Fear Death Experience English expanded version 6/7/2009 What happened next was probably the most confusing and unbelievable experience yet. I was standing IN THE WATER, I had a solid footing under me, and I was looking down the beach to my left. The sky, although it had been sunny before, was now slightly overcast, but not in an unpleasant way...the clouds had a blue, gray, pink and yellow tinge to them, as though the sun was trying to break through. There were absolutely no people on the beach, which was odd, since before, the beach was packed with people. I wasn't scared at that point - I was actually completely at peace. I just wanted to remain there, observing the beach, the sea (what I could see of it) and the gorgeous sky above me. No, I didn't hear any voices like you'd expect, and no, Jesus or any other religious figures did not appear to me. I just...stood there in the ocean and continued to review my life as I had done before. Probable fear-death experience. In the spectrum of experiences of NDE. A good example of how difficult it often is to categorize experiences.

Andrea K Possible NDE English expanded version 6/7/2009 This Woman??? showed me things I do not remember all. She said to me :this is what it will be like when you come here. I then saw a Seashore or something like it and the air seemed to be blue .All was blue. I felt as if I was looking from the right upper corner from somewhere and I felt her next to me at all times. She was so calm. I saw people on this Seashore and I seem to know these people even though I have never seen them in this dimension. I felt such love and I felt so much love from them. There was one Woman she seemed to be close to me. I was able to hold her hands and we looked at each other and I felt love yet sadness. Then this Being next to me said that it was time to go now and I will see them again but it was not my time yet. Possible NDE vs. Probable Anesthesia Experience. Very NDE-like content. From Germany.

Vincent L NDE English expanded version 6/6/2009 From Italy, translated into English by Maurizio B. A moment later I was about ten meters above the thread of light which held the street lighting lamp (this thread is about fifteen meters above the road as well). I did not understand where I was, but I felt good and no pain. I was just surprised. I saw only the wire with the lamp, not passed on the street car. After a while I began to understand where I was. I looked around and saw from a distance (approximately 70 meters) a figure on the ground at the edge of the pavement. It was my mother who held a baby in her arms. I felt a sudden urge such that I had started down toward the scene. A moment later, I was in the arms of my mother who was crying. NDE as a child.

Joseph U NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 As I fell and my friend fell on me I blacked out... At this time I looked down on myself lying there with my friends around me. I could here what they were saying and what was going on. I heard the TV and the commercials an show I was watching. I felt myself kinda floating above them near the ceiling and I could see down the hallway and was able to see my friends who were in the hallway an see what they were doing. I don't believe I was dead but I could hear my friends discussing heir worries that I was unconscious and they were slapping my face. one friend went to get water to splash on me. We were young and they didn't know what to do to revive me. As soon as I saw them about to splash water on me and then I felt myself being pulled back into my body… Then I went down the hallway an found my friends an asked them if what I saw them doing was the truth and they both confirmed that they were playing with a ball an throwing it back an forth. I was shocked an so was everyone else. NDE due to injury while playing with friends resulting in unconsciousness. Happened at age 16.

Sharon W Probable NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 My brother knew what was happening but he thought that a piece of hamburger was lodged in my throat. He saw me try to take breaths twice and could get no air. He started panicking and beating on me. Well it took me one more attempt at trying to get a breath with no luck to realize that something was drastically different this time. I was not breathing in the natural yet wondering why my brother was in a panic. By my fourth attempt at breathing with no success, I realized I might not be breathing in the natural but in my mind I had enough air for everybody and it was wonderful. It was the complete opposite of the first time; it was like taking a walk through heaven, I had no worries except my brother beating me up in his attempt to save me. Suddenly the choking stopped and I was completely ecstatic, but I could never really explain all that I felt, I really felt Jesus was breathing for me. I was never aware of any discomfort. Probable NDE from choking.

Sheri C NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 When I told him that I saw him sitting next to me, on my left, and the shirt he was wearing, he started to cry. He told me that was when they had told him, they were going to turn the machines off on me, because every organ was being run by a machine. He told me there was no way I could have seen him and what he was wearing, my eye's were closed… I have heard that some who come out of this on the other side, feel a need to do things differently in their lives. To do things "better", or change things. I have even heard of some going through a depression over this, because the life expectation was to great. My message is, be happy. That is all that is meant to come of this, just be happy. You don't have to become President, or volunteer every waking hour of every day, simply because you didn't before the "experience". Simply live, love and laugh, often. NDE due to complication of delivering a baby.

Don C NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 While being operated on the surgeon severed an artery in my neck and I bleed to death. I remember floating in the corner of the room above the operating table looking down at myself wondering what was going on. Then all of a sudden I was pulled through this tunnel to a white light where I found myself standing on this golden brick road leading up to some kind of building that had (12) twelve pillars along the side and front with steps leading up to a personage seated on a throne. This person got up and came down the stairs and down the road to me. All around me I could see and feel a beautiful peace and tranquility with love and peace. I had know care in the world. I also as far as the eye could see to my left was a beautiful landscape of tulips of every color imaginable. To my right was a wall of a beautiful blue that matched the sky. NDE due to surgical complication at age 15.

Carmel B NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 From Australia There was a man waiting by the tree, not speaking, just watching me, waiting for me to notice him. I was still 'in the light'. It made the ground look like a cloud but it felt solid. I knew there was more in this place but all I could see through the light were the gates, this man and the tree. . . .I walked up to the man and said 'Hello'. My voice sort of echoed. He smiled at me and held out a hand. It was the hand of a workman. I took his hand but I have no recall of warmth, then he hugged me and walked me over to the tree where we sat. He started to talk, explaining that he was Jesus, my great grandfather and that I was there by accident and that I needed to go back. 2 NDEs

Ann T Possible NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 But about 45 minutes later I was looking down at myself from the ceiling of the air plane. Somehow I could see around the corner into the meal preparation area too and at the same time I was looking down at myself. And then simultaneously I could see straight down the isle from the back of the plane, all the while I could see in that very moment the flight stewardess around the corner preparing food, all the while in that very second I was looking straight down at my body as if I was perched on the ceiling. I knew something extraordinary was happening and I immediately suspected I had died or something. I kept looking down from the ceiling at myself, trying to see if I was breathing. I wasn't ready to die. At one point it appeared to me that my chest was rising and falling and at another point I couldn't be sure. Possible NDE due to severe illness.

Elaine J NDE English expanded version 5/30/2009 My memories of the incident were seeing the truck headed towards me as I was stopped behind the bus - I could see it approaching in my rearview mirror - and I thought ' I'm going to die and I'm really going to miss my kids' and then the airbag blew up in my face and I was in this amazing golden light- and it felt like joy all around me I felt fabulous- no pain, no worries, complete contentment - and the warm light was "God" or my idea of God - I felt loved and cared for and precious - which was fabulous - and it seemed like everything made sense - it was like an "Ahhah" moment. This presence didn't tell me it was god - that was my later determination - we try to ascribe labels to things that shouldn't have labels - anyway, this intense energy force wanted to be with me and that was all I cared about at that time. Then suddenly I was watching from above my jeep - NDE due to auto accident.

Selosse NDE English expanded version 5/28/2009 From France, Original in French translated by Simon A. My knee struck the rocks with such force that I fainted from the pain. For a while, I ceased to exist... then darkness, a clear sensation of floating, during which my mind continued to function. I said to myself: "Ah, well, here you are then, this is death for you! It's not so bad as all that, after all." At this point an unknown, but very clear voice, said to me: "No, you're not going to die, it's really not your time yet (with the implication 'you'll live to be very old') and you're going to get out of this." Went unconscious during a swimming accident.

Adam D NDE English expanded version 5/23/2009 We peaked up to the top of the hill and the four-wheeler flipped, my dad ended up falling away from the four-wheeler, but the four-wheeler fell right on top of me and the gas tank punctured my spleen and I immediately passed out. I woke up for a few seconds seeing somebody telling me to wake up, but I passed out again. Right there I began floating above my body just watching, without any concern, just watching as they put me on the stretcher. They put me in the ambulance truck and I couldn't see inside, then I remember just being in a light for a while. I ended up coming back into my body and woke up in the hospital a couple days later, supposedly I didn't breath for 30 minutes. NDE due to accident at age 4.

Cinta J NDE English expanded version 5/23/2009 From the UK I was handing my partner a mug of tea when my teeth began to chatter and the next thing I knew, I was - somewhere else. No bright lights, no floating towards the light, I was just in another place, somewhere I'd always been. these people knew me and I knew them. I had no memory at all of any previous life. It was more real to me than anything else I'd ever experienced, but the most important thing was, that these people were so lovely. Kind, funny, loving, considerate. It was like having happiness running through your veins. This life continued for years - and then I came round to find myself in a room I didn't recognize full of people. Some of them wearing some kind of a uniform. I know now that these people were paramedics. I had a thumping great pain in my chest and no idea where I was, or who any of the people were - I thought I was in some kind of horrible nightmare. I couldn't imagine what I'd done that was so irredeemably wicked I could be put in a place like this. One of the paramedics said 'We thought we'd lost you a couple of minutes there'. NDE due to what I would guess to be a seizure prior to diagnosis of brain tumor, and NDE during surgery to remove tumor.

Edith C Probable NDE English expanded version 5/21/2009 From Argentina, Original in Spanish translated to English by Simon A. I came into a place where children were playing games, it looked like a public square, a very broad space, where the colors were unusually brilliant to see, and everything seemed very calm, with no anxieties. It was a peacefulness which is very difficult to put into words. I was accompanied by someone, I suppose it would have been a woman, because she had a brown skirt on. Suddenly I saw some children near to me, my attention was drawn to a very pretty little girl. I was very happy and was following her, when suddenly I saw a little boy, and he was sad. He tried to come near me, but the little girl whispered something to him and sent him away from me. I tried to reach him (the little girl was smiling at me), I stretched out my arm and the little boy just turned around, as if asking me for something. The "person" at my side guided me in the other direction. Probable NDE during surgery.

Paul H NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 It seemed I was there for some time, but time really didn't exist there, but I never thought of "Time" as I did on earth as it would have been useless I guess, or it just wasn't an existing thing there. There was no sound which I really loved. It was like being in a sound proof chamber, but without walls. I remember I could see. I could look in all directions. I remember looking under me and over me and I saw nothing but light Grey. It never dawned on me that when I looked under me, I was missing my earthly body. I remembered nothing of my earthly self. Or even that I had ever existed before now. NDE due to complication of cardiac procedure with cardiac arrest.

David L NDE 3990 English expanded version 5/16/2009 I was about three feet behind myself when I watched my body falling to the street. For an instant, my vision was back from the perspective of my body. I saw the pavement in my face. Back to the darkness, the pitch of black. Then as if looking down through the branches of a tree. There was an image fuzzy and dark. I thought, "What is that?" My friend answered, "I do not know, what is that?" Focusing all my concentration. The images was distorted like the sunlight that shines on the bottom of a swimming pool. The dim fuzzy dark image was illuminated clear for only an instant by the brighter lines moving across the field of view. I said to my friend, "That is my brothers car." I could see a police car to the left, a group of people behind the police car on the left, a ambulance to the right with a police car to the right of the ambulance. My friend said, "That is us." At that moment, we both said, "We are dead." NDE due to auto accident at age 17. Part of NDE is a rare shared NDE, where he is interacting with another individual who died in the same auto accident.

Theresa O Possible NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 In the next instant, Jesus Christ himself reached down and picked me up. It was so much like the feeling I had felt when I was oh so small and so scared of a fire truck and my daddy had picked me up. I held him so close around his neck. I wanted to do the same, yet I felt so undeserving. As Jesus held me, I looked into his eyes-I will never forget how wonderful and awesome his eyes were! The first thing I said to him was " Do you hate me because I am a drug Addict?'-I will never forget what He said to me---"NO"- I only want you to know that I love you." There were other things said and then he started to set me down and I said "Please don't leave me", and HE said "I will never give you more than you can handle"---Then I was back in my body. Possible NDE associated with being poisoned by boyfriend.

Lee NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 I instantly shot out of my body, but I was not above myself. It was as if I was some kind of energy, and I was flying away from earth, then it seemed as if I was flying away from the solar system, then I started flying away faster and I saw bunches of stars as if they were galaxies flying away from me, then they seemed to be bunching together into huge packs as if they were separate universes or something like that, it was as if there was a force or energy out there way bigger than anything we know, and I had an enormous sense of understanding the meaning of life, that's when I seemed to shoot back at a phenomenal speed! I then came round and realized I had been in a coma and must of died. NDE during diabetic coma.

Neiva Y Probable NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 When I was around 4 years old, I had serious asthma. We didn't know it was asthma yet, so it wasn't treated. One night, I had a very, very severe asthma attack. Suddenly I was flying, slowly following an angel who was only partly visible down my stairs. It felt very real. I felt wonderful and calm, and I wanted to keep following her for a long time. The light was so bright it was almost white. But then I realized that I wanted to be with my mom, and that I missed her. I wanted to go back to my normal life. Then, it felt like the angel was pulling me towards her, but at the same time I was being sucked backwards. She released me, and I flew through my house back into my room. When we found out that what I had was asthma, the doctor said that I was very close to dying. Probable NDE due to asthma at age 4-5. Shared at age 11- the youngest experiencer to have shared with NDERF so far.

Stacey D NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 had overdosed on a barbiturate I had three times the lethal limit in my system. I was lying on the floor passed out when my mom just happened to come home early from work that day and found me. When the paramedics arrived I was not breathing and my heart had stopped. While they were resuscitating me I recall clear as if it had happened yesterday sitting up out of my body and looking at a man who was sitting on the chair close to where my body was. I recall laughing as if I was incredibly happy to see him and I felt like I had known him my entire life. He was sitting down, he had blondish brown hair and was wearing a white shirt with blue jeans. He had his face covered so I couldn't see it and he was shaking his head from side to side as if he was disappointed in me. The next thing I remember was opening my eyes to see the paramedics which were both women and my mom standing over me. I looked to where the man was sitting and there were no men present. Suicide attempt from overdose of barbiturate.

Robert H Probable NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 I remember being transported to this new world it seemed like. I remember seeing a brightly colored dome, spires, and living a whole life someplace else. I remember being clothed in simple garb. The feeling of love was enveloping all around me. There was no fear or sorrow whatsoever. I saw colors that seem to mix together in glimmery iridescence. It was pure joy and happiness. It felt more real than anything I've experienced on earth. I did not want to leave and I was thrown back into my body it seemed. I was so upset because I was ready to go. Probable NDE from accident.

Charles S NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 Fell off porch… 5 years old sitting atop electric pole watching mother and friends trying to get me to come back -- so I felt I should go back and I did. NDE at age 5 due to fall off porch and OBE at age 55. Contributor is currently 87, thus NDE shared 82 years after its occurrence is currently an NDERF record.

Giambalvo NDE English expanded version 5/16/2009 From France. Original in French, translated to English by Simon A. I had a fall into a ravine more than 150 feet deep, witnessed by my companions and my teacher. From where I fell, I could hear my best friend calling to find where I was. I was replying but he could not hear me. I saw him reach the spot and I saw my teacher lifting me in his arms. I also saw the ambulance arrive by road and park at the edge of the forest. I saw the paramedics get out of their vehicles. I did speak to my teacher, but no one could hear me, and from where I fell it would be impossible to see everything I saw, as I was right inside the forest with my view cut off, and unconscious. NDE from a fall.

Jean-Marie P NDE English expanded version 5/12/2009 From Belgium. Original in French, translated to English by Simon A. The only thing I am absolutely certain of, and which I could remember directly after the accident, is the flash, as I have always called it, though I was not dazzled. It was not so much a flash as a reverse flash. Actually, I was in the light, and the world appeared to me as a little black dot. Then this dot grew larger and larger, until I seemed to pass from one world to another. I was surrounded by light and then little by little the black dot, at first tiny, grew bigger, to finally absorb me. The transition came about at dizzying speed. Yet, I remember it as if it were yesterday, as I did when I came back. I've had trouble sorting out what happened just after the accident. As if time, not the events themselves, were stored in a random way in my memory, due to the shock, perhaps. NDE from a car accident. This is an unusual one that shows the link between NDE and the need for the brain to be able to reach those NDE memories.

Anatole C Probable NDE English expanded version 5/11/2009 when I decided to give up trying to reach the shore and just let myself drown, suddenly everything seemed to stand totally still. I could clearly feel/see that the wind still blew, the water still lapped around me, the sun continued to shine bright and strong. I could feel these elements but they did not effect the void time/space that was created around me. Then I heard a voice directly in my mind. I clearly perceived that it came to me from above-left side. This being I did not perceive as being "more" than myself. it was more like a "similar" to myself. a telepathic dialogue took place in which certain questions were asked and I was compelled to answer truthfully. At the end, I made a decision and at that point, the "void" stopped and, with difficulty, I made it back to the shore. Probable NDE due to near drowning.

Carmen D NDEs English expanded version 5/11/2009 I was climbing up a long golden ladder up through the clouds, and I was climbing very very high and at the end of the ladder, there was a man, (for me, it was God) who met me. He was of medium built with white shoulder length hair, with a white shiny white beard like angel hair and had on a white robe with sash. He took me by my hand and we walked towards a marble bench where he sat me in his lap. I felt very weak and tired from the long climb. As he sat me on his lap and laid in his arms, I reached up and touched his beard with my right hand and felt the most immense sense of love and understanding, (until this day this feeling has never left me). He stood me up and took me by the hand and as we were walking, we went to a white marble room where there was a huge screen and pictures of my life were flashing very fast. In the screen, were the most surprising images that has never left me, it was of a previous life. NDE at age 5 due to accidental overdose of anti-depressant medication, and NDE at age 15 due to ether complication during dental procedure.

Andrew C NDE. English expanded version 5/11/2009 From Romania. I found myself floating in above the surgery room and surprised that I seemed to have no weight at all I was very light and movement was really easy compared to the physical movement I looked down and saw my body and the doctors working on me heard them yelling " we are loosing him " they struggled to get me back to life and I was so confused thinking " wow why do they bother ? I don't need my body im fine actually better than before " it sounds funny because for them it was a life-threatening situation but I was so calm and relaxing up there suspended in the air that I thought " this is death ? how can I see if I have no eyes ? " I then saw a bright gentle light coming down on me from the ceiling and it filled me with happiness and love that I never felt on earth I completely became addicted to it was so powerful. NDE due to complication while under general anesthesia.

Karyl M NDE-Like English expanded version 5/11/2009 It was time to go outside, and I was headed for the window. However, as I turned slowly, there was darkness, and a small light at the apparent end. In this tunnel, I could see glimpses of dark blue, purple and gold specks, illuminating the walls of this long, and very quiet tunnel. The tranquility that was within there is now capturing my entire being, and was enough for this highly anxious girl, want to stay here for a long while. As I am floating toward the light, I felt compelled to continue this uncertain and positive experience.......The light is becoming brighter and larger, and all I could feel is the presence of good., and now am for sure, this is where I need to be. Very NDE-Like: OBE over body, tunnel, light at end of tunnel, being there gave her choice to return, back to body. No physical compromise.

Jessica G NDE English expanded version 5/3/2009 After a brief argument with the man, as I was trying to swim away from him, he pushed me under water by my shoulders and held me there. I struggled against his hands on my shoulders, but was not able to come to the surface. When I was almost out of air, I looked up through the water at the face of my attacker. His expression was very frightening to me because he was smiling, but also appeared to be very angry. The perspective of my memory at that point changed from looking up at him to looking down at the top and back of his head and myself from above. I saw my body floating limply under water with my eyes open. At the same time the visual perspective of my memory changed, I remember the pain in my lungs, my feelings of panic and the urge to breathe stopped as well. I felt peaceful clarity. I was aware of the circumstances and knew I was dying. My face looked peaceful and oddly pretty. I was aware I had a choice and was happy to move on to the light behind me. NDE due to criminal attack and drowning at age 11.

Paeata BC NDE English expanded version 5/3/2009 From New Zealand Great clarity. All the richness of color and the other senses working overtime and even I would say outside of normal experience so sort of extended awareness… A second was an eternity and an eternity a second. Multiple NDEs from asthma attacks.

Dave N Experience English expanded version 5/3/2009 My brief encountered continued on, I felt that I was subterranean, my for some reason I noted seeing a statue of “The Thinker”, and then it was dark, hot, extremely hot, the surroundings were rocky, dusty, like a canyon underground and I was being led downward with the heat intensifying. I blacked out form there I awakened into a blinding light, the light of the sun, like I said, it was so bright it was blinding, I turned and looked down to see mountains, filled with trees, a valley with a beautiful river flowing, as I turned, I saw the river flow into the ocean, untouched by humans. No bridges, people, utilities, just raw beauty. I felt alive. NDE vs ICU Hallucination. Complications after heart surgery and was in ICU 20 days. Had episodes of respiratory arrest, but event not clearly associated with these events.

Jan L Probable NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 I was given a general anesthetic for a routine surgical procedure for my bladder. Once the anesthetic was given to me, and procedure complete, while in the recovery room attendants and doctors could not awaken me. And so on....during this time I recall looking around the recovery room and eventually, sitting up and moving. Being curious I looked around the room to see what it looked like noticing the medical staff working in another portion of the room. Suddenly, I saw this beautiful white light slowly coming towards me. A man who had a kind gentle face dressed in a white cloth was before me. He stood to the right side of this ever growing light. While I began to move in his direction, he was so welcoming and only spoke to me it seemed through his eyes. He asked me if I wanted to enter the light. I was overjoyed that he had come for me and loved me so much. I can't really describe the joy or calm I felt. I wanted to go with so badly. It felt like home. Somehow it was decided for me not to go with him and I returned to my body. Probable NDE following surgery at age 16.

Berta P NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 I was 16 years old, h/o emotional, psychical and sexual abuse, intoxicated, involved in a severe motor vehicle accident that threw me 138 feet, landing on the pavement face first. I do not remember the impact, transportation to the hospital or treatment up until the time of death. I remember the code team working on me, and then they slowly turned and walked away. The M.D. had said that it was over, he was ending the resuscitation attempt (calling the code). I was floating in the air, up in the corner, above some equipment. I was looking down at everything. My vision was extremely clear and intense--as if being in a body was like being in a lens, and now it was clear. I felt wonderful--no body sensations; pain, density. Everything was light and pure, beyond anything describable. NDE at age 16 due to car accident.

Christy B NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 We had had an accident and from what I have been told, at first was non-responsive then got up, denied medical treatment from paramedics and went with my parents who had been called to the scene. I have no recall of the accident or how I got to my parents' house what I do recall is, I was with my biological mother who passed 12 yrs earlier and countless others who loved me and were so happy to see me and I them. I felt as though they were caring for me and began wondering why they had to care for me and that is when I was told it was to keep me safe and that I would have to leave soon, and oh I so so didn't want to go since I felt a very powerful all loving, content, sensation that I was Home! I was surrounded with a powerful energy source and was a source of positive energy myself and was interested and slightly confused as to why I wouldn't be staying with them. NDE due to accident while passenger on a motorcycle.

Gloria NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 I felt as though I was hovering around my body, but this was probably due to the drugs. I had no physical sensation even though I was crashing into walls and doors. I sort of watched my body bouncing around. Two days later, after everything was over, I found contusions on my head and other parts of my body. In the meantime, somehow we made it to the hospital where they put me on a gurney, got me into a room, shoving a tube up my nose and down my throat (that I remember! It felt like someone punched me straight in the nose.) The hospital staff kept yelling for me to stay awake. I watched them from around my body more than in it. NDE due to suicide attempt with unknown medications at age 12. Remarkable anxiety in her mother at the time which probably saved her life. Also describes a deathbed vision by mother.

Jodi S NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 A tall bald black man was wheeling me into the operating room because I started bleeding internally. I remember telling him through difficult breaths "Don't let me die!" He looked right into my eyes and said, "You're not going to die today!" That was the last words I heard. I remember seeing this bright beautiful light that started out in front of me and quickly was all around me. It was so intensely bright and white, but it did not hurt my eyes or make me squint. It was so bright white it had almost a blue hue to it. There is nothing on Earth I can compare it to, so it is very difficult for me to explain. But it was the most welcoming and beautiful feeling I ever had. I felt so incredibly free and I was intensely happy and felt no need for anything. There was no sense of time during this period. I just knew I never wanted to leave this sense of peace and wellbeing. One thing is for sure, I was NOT dead! I was more alive than I had ever been before. I saw a figure of light come towards me out of the light. NDE due to car accident.

Wilma J NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 I SAW A GLOW OF LIGHT AND A HAND REACH OUT TO ME. I GRABBED THE HAND AND WAS PULLED TO THE OTHER SIDE WHERE I WAS GREETED WITH THE MOST HANDSOME SPIRIT WHO GUIDED ME THRU THIS EXPERIENCE. I WAS TOLD IT WAS NOT MY TIME BUT THAT GOD WANTED ME TO KNOW TO START TAKING MY LIFE MORE SERIOUSLY OR I WOULD BE DEAD SOON. I WAS TOLD I HAVE TO COME BACK AND TAKE CARE OF MY KIDS. I WAS TOLD TO BE MORE UNDERSTANDING TOWARD MY MOTHER. I ALSO WAS TOLD HE WOULD ALWAYS BE THERE FOR ME. I CRIED BECAUSE I DID NOT WANT TO COME BACK HERE BECAUSE I FELT SO MUCH PEACE AND CALMNESS AND LOVE THAT I NEVER FELT BEFORE. IT WAS REALLY BEAUTIFUL AND DYING TO ME IS SOMETHING I DO NOT FEAR ANYMORE OR FEEL NEGATIVE TOWARDS DYING. NDE due to medication complication after childbirth.

Thomas M NDE 3958 English expanded version 4/25/2009 I knew that this presence was all powerful and knew everything and that everything would always be alright no matter what happened ever. I became aware that the presence was prompting me into a dialogue. I remember bits and pieces of a "conversation" without words. I remember asking questions and receiving answers. The first question I asked was very impertinent. "Why is there so much pain down there?" (meaning on earth). The answer was laughter. So much joyful laughter like a mother laughing at the amazing questions only a small child can ask. The laughter was followed with something like: "Don't you know I have the power to take away all the pain? I can rewind the universe and start all over again with one simple wish. The pain is left behind on earth. It does not travel with us but the lessons we learn from it are eternal." NDE due to car accident. Had amnesia for weeks after accident, then remembered the accident and the NDE.

Crystal B NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 Then, I remember seeing people in the past like my father. When I was face to face to my father I felt afraid "did you steal this?" he said to me. "no!" I replied, and then he asked it again. about 10 times with the same movement as if it was rewound and replayed. When I told the truth I got to go on to the next person I lied to. "did you do this to this?" "no!" then when I had lied again I ended up all the way back to my father. I had to tell the truth no matter how much crap I thought I would be in. I wanted it to end and I wanted it to fast forward so I chose to tell the truth throughout all of the people I have lied to. NDE due to car crash. Contains some atypical features. Remarkably, this NDE is shared only a few days after it occurred.

Patricia AR NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 Well I was prep for and was sedated. The next thing I know I heard the doctor yelling and the nurses running around. I looked to my right and saw the doctor beating on my chest, but I all I could do was stand there until I saw a light on the wall. It looked like a flashlight that grew bigger and I touched it and was taken into a tunnel with clouds spinning and rolling around. They clouds were grey, white, and smoky somewhat. I was gliding very fast with my arms just dangling. When I got to the end the light turned orange and there very tall man dressed in tan work outfit (Shirt & pants). I look pass him and I could see yellow flowers and a large mountain and a blue sky. His face was the color of light sand and his hair was golden tan. He had the kindest look in his eyes. I could hear the silence and see the trees and I wanted to run in, but he stopped me. He tilted me backwards and sent me back through the tunnel with a gentle push, at which time I heard the doctor say we got her. Two NDEs during surgery due to apparent cardiac arrest. The second NDE appears to include the rare situation of seeing a person during the NDE who was alive at the time of the NDE.

Richard R NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 Then I went into respiratory arrest. This happens a lot to me. There was this most amazing bright light. All of a sudden I was in the most beautiful place. The sky was so blue. The weather was so perfect. I was outside. It was just this huge big open lawn. Every member of my family and friends who had died were there. Even my dogs. I felt calmer than at any time in my life. I have never felt so at peace or happy. Then my brother came over to me and hugged me and smiled and said it wasn't my time yet and then all of a sudden I was awake and gasping for breath and surrounded by a whole lot of doctors and nurses. Since then I have felt so much calmer. Death doesn't scare me like it did before. It is hard to explain. I know that I am not going to die when my body dies. I guess you would have to have it happen to you to know what I am talking about. NDE due to respiratory arrest.

S. Jayashree S. Probable NDE English expanded version 4/25/2009 From India There was a WHITE BRIGHT LIGHT......VERY CHILLY WEATHER.....I LOST MY CONSCIENCE. BODY....FELT VERY VERY VERY LIGHT....AND FLYING EXPERIENCE. THE SPEED YOU CANNOT DESCRIBE IN WORDS....THERE IS SO STOP FOR A MOMENT...I TRAVEL IN A BLACK TUNNEL...WITH GREAT SPEED...FORGOTTEN EVERYTHING....IN THIS WORLD. EVEN MY NAME, HUSBAND, SON, HOME WHERE I RESIDE...AND TIME. DAY. MONTH. YEAR...NOTHING IS THERE IN MY MIND...AND THE SPEED REALLY THREATENED A LOT....AND A SUDDEN SKIP AND JERK.....GOT ME BACK IN THIS WORLD AGAIN...AFTER THIS EXPERIENCE...I BECOME A DIFFERENT PERSONALITY. Probable NDE that happened after surgery.

Simran W NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 From India It was the sunny morning at around 11 pm of 18th May, 2007 when I boarded a bus to take up some work. I don’t know what happened, I just heard some voices so concerned about me and pleading me lovingly, saying “WAKE UP!! WAKE UP!! NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO YOU. NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO YOUR BRAIN. YOU ARE A VIPASSANIYA! WAKE UP, WAKE UP! And I did wake up, saw that my bus had met with a deadly accident killing the bus driver and injuring many of us. I was the only one who flew from the front seat. The vision was blurry, the sound dull, and some guy asked me about informing any of the family member. I somehow struggled my husband’s name and saw myself soaked in blood having splinters all over my body, leg crushed badly and then a blackout. From India- relatively rare non-Western NDE. NDE due to bus crash. I believe the term used above is Vipissanā, which in the Buddhist tradition means insight into the nature of reality. A regular practitioner of Vipassana is known as a Vipassi (vipasya). (From Wikipedia).

JennZ NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 A friend and I were driving to VT one day and I was the driver. I have a history of chronic asthma and bronchitis. At the time I was still a smoker. I had a chest cold as well. I was driving along a highway in rural VT, not much traffic when I lit up a cigarette. After a couple of puffs I started coughing hard, then harder, then I couldn't even take a breath in and passed out. I remember not feeling anything after that just a dream or visual experience. I remember moving rapidly through the trees and bright sunlight was shining through the trees as I was moving toward something. Then I stopped. There was a big white house that sat under a brilliantly blue sky and there was a nice flower garden and white sheets blowing in the breeze on laundry lines. I remember looking into what I thought was a laundry basket on the ground but when I looked inside of it, I saw a baby. NDE at time she passed out while driving.

Mandip Possible NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 From India There doors sliding in front of me each door representing a stage of my past life since childhood & one door representing present day somehow I knew I had to enter the right door in the limited time I had as after that all the doors would close never to open again leaving me all alone in the dark void forever . I also knew that if I entered the wrong door the memories from that stage of my life till today would be erased I started fearing not death but isolation or never being able to see my two sons & husband again or even not recognizing them after I wake up I feel time is slipping out of my hands & I decide that I rather enter the wrong door than stay back in my head I just think of GOD & put my foot forward to enter the speeding doors & at that very moment I feel the anesthetist slapping my cheeks & calling my name & the surgeon says SHE IS BACK I know it was not just a dream because after these few seconds of consciousness I was unconscious again &when I regained consciousness again I felt the time lapse Possible NDE from India.

Julianna D NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 Was I really going to leave my life behind? I went over everything one more time and I just said do it now or else you'll suffer more with your life and if this ever came up again I probably wouldn't be brave enough to actually hold a knife to my stomach and say this is it. I'm through. So I lifted the knife up and just slammed it through my skin. The pain was so terrible I couldn't even cry. I remember falling on the ground with my mouth just hanging wide open. Then a white light appeared and a girl about sixteen or seventeen walked out. She walked up to me and wrapped her arms around my shoulders and told me that everything was going to be alright. I was scared. I kept on asking her who she was she just told me that it didn't matter and that she was my comforter. Stunning NDE from suicide attempt at age 11. Experience shared at age 12.

Phillip NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 I was crossing a 4 lane highway, the cars by my side of the road had stopped at a red light that was half a block down. I went between the cars on my side and ran thru them thinking that the other lanes where clear because of the red light. I heard the screeching of tires, felt a heavy bump, felt myself spinning thru the air and then slid to a stop with my head on the curb and my body in the street. I was looking up at the sky. I could not hear, I was not feeling anything and I could not move. The edges of my vision was getting closer and closer until finally I blacked out. All of a sudden I was high in the sky. I could see my body lying in the street, all the people where getting out of their cars. I had a panorama view of the whole area and I was slowly going higher. I saw the ambulance coming. I saw the EMT's get out. They started immediately cutting off my jacket and shirts, It was winter time. They hooked me up to a defibrillator and shocked me twice. NDE at age 15 due to being struck by a car.

Isaac L NDE English expanded version 4/24/2009 I took two floaties - foam 'noodles' - into the water and was straddling them as I floated, while my mother and uncle sat on the concrete and talked. I floated, without realizing it, into the deep end of the pool. Suddenly, I slipped between the wet noodles and fell into the water. Being completely inexperienced in swimming, I sunk straight to the bottom and started inhaling water quickly. I saw a light, and started to thrash and walk toward it. I seemed to move unnaturally slowly and fluidly. I thought the light was a light at the edge of the pool, and I was planning to reach it and pull myself up and out of the water. I almost reached it when my uncle's strong arms gripped me and pulled me up. He had jumped in, in his business suit, to save me. When I talked to my mom much later, she said I hadn't moved from where I had fallen in the water - my conclusion is that my spirit left my body and was moving to the next life. NDE at about age 6 due to near drowning.

Lydia L NDE English expanded version 4/6/2009 From Quebec Canada, original in French translated to English by Simon A I started home on my bicycle near 7 pm, I was not wearing my hard helmet with earphones. I was focusing on my premonition. At a red light, I crossed the street. I could see the car coming, and I thought it was going to stop to let me cross over. But it wasn't. It hardly slowed down, then it swerved and hit me. In the space of 5 seconds, I saw my life passing before me, and my grandmother, who was near to me. When I opened my eyes, I was under my bike, unable to move. Teenager hit by a car at age 15 and reported it at age 16.

Chris W Probable NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 Then the next thing I remember was that I was moving in slow motion across an open field of green grass. And it was a sunny day. Bright and sunny day. (Remember I was on my way to work at 3:30 am in the morning. It was pitch dark and no grass.) And as I was driving through the field, all the tree was right in front of me. So I swerved to miss it. Then I was just their watching myself. bent over holding my stomach. Asking for help softly. Then from there I was in a mans house, blood all over me, sitting on his chair, saying only (help, I hurt) then from there, all I remember was being in the hospital. Probable NDE from car accident.

GP Fear Death Experience and Probable NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 From India. I was on the roof of an apartment that was under construction. There was opening of roof for lift on the roof. Accidentally I was slipped through it and came to the cellar floor and fell down on horizontal beam. My spinal card 13th disk has been damaged. I could remember the fall only. It was about 50 feet height. While dropping from the roof through the duct I lost body contact. There was sudden and very bright light light. I lost consciousness about the physical body and immersed in the light. I was admitted in Hospital and after CT Scan and other tests the doctors confirmed that there is nothing wrong with my brain. I could come to consciousness only after two days of the incident. Experience began while falling, apparently prior to life-threatening impact.

Kumar NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 From India. During the surgery at one point I remember having no air inside me . I believe that was the time when my lungs had collapsed ( as told by the doctor later ) .They had lost me for about 11 seconds. At this time I remember very clearly what I felt was something like some one wanting to place some blocks on me ...like a jigsaw puzzle but didn't know where to fix it and I knew and wanted to let them . I was screaming to tell but they could not hear me . I lifted my arm but suddenly realized my arm was in two places on the operation table and trying to reach the doc. At that point I gave up but strangely I was not at all sad . I accepted it almost lay back feeling satisfied with a feeling of a lot of peace and calm around me . I strangely felt happy that the docs had failed to fit the piece . Then suddenly I felt a gush of cold air filling my body which may have been the ventilator starting . Next I woke up the next day . NDE due to complications of childbirth.

Lisa L NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 An older man parked in the parking lot didn't see us and as he backed out he I was standing out side the and I didn't see him coming my way he back up smashing me in to the car . and I felt the hard hit bit felt no pain , I hear a voice saying look up . I looked up it was bright and I look back down and back up and I could see my soul leaving my body going in the air . right then I began to pray to god to let me live . because I wasn't ready .I just had a baby that may . and had 3 other small children and they needed me . and I needed them , as I prayed to god I watched my soul come back in my body and it was back in there before the ambulance got there , and next thing I new I was in the hospital . NDE due to injury.

Barbara W NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 I had surgery to relieve the pressure on my brain and was in intensive care. I was in a coma. I didn't know until I got home that the doctors told my family I only had a 10% chance of living. At one point I became aware of a light that was with me that I'll refer to as a presence. The presence was communicating with me and assuring me I was safe and led me through a beautiful field with flowers and trees and a creek. The presence was telling me I would no longer have any worries or troubles and was so calming. We got to a white bridge and I was ready to go over when the presence said it was okay to go over but told me I had 3 small children on this side, so I remained on this side. NDE due to cerebral hemorrhage.

Christopher G NDE English expanded version 4/4/2009 Even under the sedation I felt a small amount of pain but when my heart starting going into V tach a peace came over me I became fully aware of my surroundings I could feel the shell of my body and my spirit began to rise an extreme peace came over me. As my spirit began to rise the doctor shocked me and then again and my spirit stopped and went back into my body and state of mind went back to being sedated. I felt complete peace no worries about anything and it was one of the greatest experiences of my life. NDE during cardiac procedure while under conscious sedation anesthesia. Interesting contrast between consciousness under this type of anesthesia and enhanced consciousness of NDE. This experience was shared a few days after it happened.

Mitzi M NDE English expanded version 3/14/2009 Then everything went black and I totally relaxed. It was a very, very peaceful, calm feeling. There was no pain, no stress, no worries. The next thing I remember was I was standing at the door of a very dark space looking out at a beautiful fall day. There was a dirt road leading off into the distance and I was at the beginning of it. There a forest on either side of the road and the trees and plants were all bright colors of Autumn. Right in front of me there were 2 boys, around the ages of 6 and 8, and they were standing there facing me and holding hands. I couldn't make out their faces because the sun was shining very brightly in the sky above and behind them and their faces were in dark shadow. I believe it was because the place behind me was so dark and the sun had nothing to reflect off of to light up their faces. I could see the hair on their heads and arms very well because the sun was highlighting it. It was kind of like the boys were in silhouette. That was all I remember before I woke up. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Greg D NDE English expanded version 3/14/2009 I could not taste, smell or feel anything. What felt like a few seconds later was a visual effect of all the great things that happened in my life. It was as though I was watching a video of my life...starting out slowly and increasing in speed toward the end. Then all of a sudden it felt as though I was standing in the middle of a football field in total darkness. It was a feeling of open space for at least a few hundred feet around me. As I looked upward I could see a rim of light at the very top of where I was at. Air brushed behind my neck and though someone was behind me. Then all of a sudden I heard a voice coming toward me. A man's voice which was in a different language. It was more of a whisper that turned into English, telling me "It's almost time." I saw quick pictures of myself aging from childhood to adulthood and more forward. All of a sudden a jerk came across my body and it automatically shifted 180-degrees. I had then opened my eyes laying in a hospital bed wondering what the heck had just happened. I was told that I had an asthma attack while at work and had stopped breathing. NDE due to asthma attack.

Marci F Fear Death Experience English expanded version 3/14/2009 From France I was coming home after work at about 8 30 pm and it had snowed and grown considerably colder. I knew the winding hilly back road like the back of my hand and enjoyed speeding along. Unfortunately the wooden/bridge was exposed and grew icy faster than the ground. I came onto the bridge, lost control of my car, thought I would die, saw my life pass in front of me and at that same moment, something intervened to redirect my car and I glided safely to the other side. The next day, I took a walk near the bridge to study the icy effects and discover details. The bridge was closed. Someone else had gone over it after me, lost control and did not survive. From France. Life review at time car slid on an icy bridge.

Cedric G NDE English expanded version 3/11/2009 From France, translated to English by Amy. When my heart rate reach 280 beats per minute the doctor turned to me and asked if I was okay. I remember it was precisely at that moment that I felt that I was going to faint. I therefore responded "not really" and "let go". That's when I climbed slowly towards the ceiling, my vision was tunnel vision, pretty clear in the center and blurry on the sides, I climb for a few seconds, I don't hear anything, I don't feel anything, I understand that I am going up and then am violently pulled back down. That's the only thing I feel for real, the ceiling gets farther away and the descent to the bottom is at an unnatural speed. Once I'm out of that room I regain consciousness, a nurse realizes that my entire body is trembling.

Cherie M NDE English expanded version 3/7/2009 In 2000 I was shot in the right temple point blank with a 22 caliber handgun. At first I could hear everything but I was paralyzed & blind. I was speaking but not sure if I could be heard because it was as if I were in another dimension. I kept saying I'm not dead yet & I heard him go outside & then reenter. Then I heard him make the 911 call. All of the sudden there was a dark tunnel I was getting sucked through towards the light. When I got to the light, there was Jesus. It wasn't visual but there was no disputing who it was. He took me by the hand. The profoundly incredible peace was beyond conception. We walked hand & hand for some time. It was hard to tell because it was like there was no sense of time. I remember feeling the presence of my deceased Father in the distance. I also remember not wanting to come back. It was bliss. NDE due to being shot in head at point blank range.

Julie D Probable NDE English expanded version 3/7/2009 I was standing in the ocean. I could feel the pull of the undertow. I knew nothing about undertow. I sat down in the water. The undertow pulled me out into the ocean and flipped me all around. I felt a deep sense of peace and a feeling that I was going to drown. There was no panic only peace. I thought to myself, "I wonder how far this has taken me out into the ocean" I also thought calmly, "I am going to drown" I also had a panoramic view of my life - there was no sense of time - I didn't know how long this was all taking. There was some sense of God being in control of the situation, however, I did not specifically see any Being. Then, suddenly, I was "let go" and I came to the top of the water. I was not far from shore. I was with a friend. She was on shore laughing at me. She said it looked "funny" I never told her (or anyone else) for a long time I did not know this was an "NDE" years later, I heard someone on TV describe exactly what happened to me. They had been in a near drowning experience as well. Probable NDE due to near drowning.

V NDE English expanded version 3/7/2009 Then, I was Home. Earth and this life were a bad summer camp, in comparison, and I knew I wanted to stay. I didn't want to go back to camp. That's all I knew. I didn't "see 'God,'" but I felt as though I was sitting in the lap and wrapped in the arms of the most wonderful, loving [giant] "parent." This is where it gets frustrating, because there are not, now, and will never be words to convey how this feels... I detest using the word "God," because of the great perversion we humans have made of the concept, but I will use it from this point onward, merely for the sake of expedience. I was "sitting in God's lap," wrapped in the warmest embrace, and immediately involved in a "conversation." We communicated -- telepathically? Don't know how else to describe it. I didn't want to come back. That was my focus. I was Home, I liked being Home, just let me be Home. But God was holding me tighter [in the best of ways], and showing me the life to which I must return. Profound NDE at age 3 due to overdose of unknown medication.

Leta NDE English expanded version 2/28/2009 I woke up at 4:00 am. I went into the bathroom. I started to feel queasy. I felt faint. The next thing I remember was I was FLYING, super fast, head first down a long, dark hallway. It was very dark. There was someone on my right holding my arm taking me. I could tell that this person KNEW where we were going and it was their mission to bring me. I was screaming no, no, no. I did not want to go. I could see objects going by me on each side. I don't know what they were because we were flying so fast. It felt like we were going down that dark hallway for a long time. I remember just thinking no, where am I? where are we going? Then we stopped in front of a door on the left. I don't know what color the door was, all I knew was it was a door and I was not going through it! I kept saying NO! The next thing I remember was my husband telling me I had a seizure. NDE due to seizure followed by respiratory and cardiac arrest.

Linda S NDE English expanded version 2/28/2009 My sister, who had passed away 21 years before my experience, she was doing some type of work with other beings, who had human form, but I do not remember their faces. This was in a one-level structure, that looked like a long house from the outside. She was giggling and quite happy; she greeted me and told me there was someone she wanted me to meet. Amidst some commotion, through the back came Jesus Christ, and there was no mistake as to who he was; he looked like the artist's portraits, but not meek and mild, as often portrayed, he was healthy and robust. He put his arm around me, in the area of what would have been my shoulder, looked me straight in the eyes and said "I have come for you, that you may know that I am real." I was totally awestruck by His presence, yet I felt a love and respect for Him that I have never felt in physical life. I followed Him to an area that I can best describe as a "desert garden". We sat on large "sitting rocks", and he began to speak. NDE during coma due to bacterial meningitis.

Valerie R NDE English expanded version 2/28/2009 I was in surgery at the time, I had told my doctor I was scared to die, though my belief in Jesus is tremendous, sometime during surgery I went thru a tunnel, parts of my life passed me by, I had closed my eyes tight, I remember someone saying open your eyes, I was in a pure white space, and could see rooms with spirits walking around, I started to cry, but no tears, I remember looking at my hands and they were translucent, then an angel appeared, she had such a radiant glow to her beauty to behold, she comforted me, telling me I was safe, I remember telling her I wasn't ready to die, she said she knew that, then she pointed down, and I could see the doctor's doing CPR on a little Girl, not really understanding that was me, I watched my whole operation, CPR, and all, I told her that was so sad, she looks so young, then she said they are bringing her back, and I felt like I was pushed and thrown back into that painful body, After I woke from surgery my doctor told me I scared her and that they had lost me in the operating room… NDE during surgery at age 17.

Adaline C NDE English expanded version 2/28/2009 I didn’t feel any pain at all; however I was just struggling to set myself free from this man (the father of my son). I then was in this beautiful glowing place, white glowing background like clouds but illuminating bright clouds, and a man in front of me. A man in a white dressy shirt and white dressy pants, his hair so smooth black and short, beautifully comb to the back (very good looking man). I was begging him to let me stay, but he insisted in telling me I have to go back. I insisted in not coming back, I wanted to stay in this beautiful place. This Other Side was unexplainable in words. Too peaceful, too overwhelming, I was overpowered with some much love. I felt enamored, whole and complete, nothing to do with this world. It was my best experience in my whole life. The moment I step in the Other Side I felt the immense love all around me, also I knew I belonged there, however I tried hard, and implore, implore, and implore to stay in this beautiful world… NDE due to strangulation by ex-boyfriend.

Catherine D NDE English expanded version 2/27/2009 From France, Original in French, translated to English by Jean Peter. When I arrived where I could not go forward (I was at the end of the tunnel, on one side there was the light but I was still in darkness), this is when I heard God’s voice who talked to me, HIS VOICE stopped me. His voice has an ACTING energy power. While He was talking to me, I did feel I could not move anymore, although I very much wanted to reach the light. My consciousness was clear, kind of acute, this is an hyper consciousness, ultra clear. Everything that has been told to me has been perceived and understood as being the TRUTH. This consciousness ENCOMPASSES ALL, just all. This is INSTANT consciousness. It is also different in the sense that communication is also realized through telepathy. His presence (God’s) was not a visual one, although I could have precisely said where He was, somewhat hidden in the shadow. His presence could be perceived through the energy mass I felt flowing out of Him and the place He was. He was God, no need to introduce Himself: Not only does he communicates orally but also through telepathy, by placing TRUTHS in our mind. The fact that He was God was one of these truths he placed in my spirit.

Cora V NDE English expanded version 2/23/2009 From the Netherlands, Original in Dutch, translated to English by Annelies. Then I was alone again and although I was lying with my back towards the window, I was looking out of that window. And in the distance I saw a glowing point light up. While I was watching it became bigger, like the sun rising and it came through the closed window into the room and embraced me completely. Then all went quiet inside me and all I felt was a warm love, peace and a feeling of happiness that is difficult to put into words. It seemed I had had a lung embolism and the doctors had saved me from dying. For a long time I have longed for that feeling of love. Beginnings of a NDE.

Mark NDE English expanded version 2/22/2009 I was being drowned, BY a Lifeguard (of all people)...and, I slowly sank to the bottom of the pool, where I stayed for 5 or more minutes with a water filled body. After a short while, I sensed Angels gathering around me; it was peaceful. Then, I was maybe 20 to 30 feet above the pool, looking down at my friend diving into the pool to save me. The Angels took me up to a gathering of clouds. There were a few Romanesque pillars with green ivy, and an archway in the back. I had 7 Angels holding me up, and four in front of me on the landing. Three were very animated and discussing what to do with me, the fourth angel kept me company. I looked around and saw very large Pure Love Orbs with silhouettes of human souls - like a chalk outline of a dead body. I looked down at our earth and it was brown and moving, and alive with all of the souls it takes to make our planet whole; Our earth, is Alive, as you are. I saw Heaven, a little to my left behind the pillars. NDE due to drowning at age 12.

Stefan B NDE English expanded version 2/22/2009 I was standing on a moving swing and fell down after a girl shook the swing (and I wasn't holding myself to anything). I fell on my back and hit my head on the ground. I immediately lost consciousness. Then I saw my life from the beginning like in a fast-forwarded movie (the feeling I got was that of a dream - compared to full consciousness - so I didn't actually realize that I was unconscious). I woke up before the memories could reach the present with a fade-to-black and then to the gray of the rainy sky of that day. NDE at age 8 in Romania due to falling from swing.

Marissa G NDE English expanded version 2/22/2009 From Israel. I saw a girl in the hospital bed and knew that she was very ill and dying. With this understanding I knew it was me that was this ill girl. I had departed from my physical body and was looking at my hospital room from the corner of the ceiling, I saw my father walking up and down looking now and then at the monitors that my body was attached to, I saw my mother sitting in a large arm chair quietly. Then they appeared one on my left, one on my right and one behind me. I felt great wisdom coming from them; they talked to me through thought not sound. They asked me if I wish to go with them or stay. I had no questions about going with them but asked many about what will be if I decided to stay. Some of my questions were: 1. If I decided to stay will I get better? 2. Will the pain go away? 3. How will I know that all will be ok after I decide to live? 4. Is there something that I am to do on earth and therefore should decide to live? I was given more or less answers to my questions. NDE due to illness.

Georgia Possible NDE English expanded version 2/22/2009 From Sweden Original in Swedish, translated to English by John S. Until this very day I remember the meeting with the incredibly kind figure who wore a long cloak or mantle. I think it was a male figure, maybe an angel, but without visible wings. I clearly remember the question he asked me: If I was ready to cross over. I knew somehow that there wasn’t any return if I did that. I almost felt embarrassed and ungrateful to the friendly figure when I said: “Mom and dad need me, besides we will go back to Sweden in a few days.” I don’t remember if I said that in words or by telepathy. Immediately after that I woke up. My grandmother was trying to lower the fever by using large rhubarb-looking leaves on my bare body. Possible Child NDE .

Jolene NDE English expanded version 2/22/2009 The white, warm glow surrounds me. It is the purest white light you could ever see, glowing all around you. I felt so comfortable, and so undoubtedly happy. I knew what was going on, I knew it as a fact, not assuming.. I was dead. It felt like a long time before I was spoken to. It was not verbally, nor did I see anyone/anything else around me. I was being spoken from within my own heart. It is hard to describe without sounding like I am making a conversation with myself, but that's what it was. It was like my inner conscience was talking to me. It asked "Are you ready to come home?" I knew it meant death. I thought about it, I really did, I thought so hard and for what seemed like hours I contemplated. Do I really want to die? This was the greatest feeling I had ever experienced, do I want this feeling to end? My answer was 'no'. I wanted to live a life. As soon as I answered 'no' (which was not done verbally, I doubt I even had anything like a body at the time) I was immediately hit with, well, intuitions of the future. NDE due to complications following open heart surgery at age 4.

Krisna T NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 My boyfriend at the time was driving the truck. We were heading home from the bar. When he lost control of the vehicle and it rolled 3 times. My seatbelt busted And I was ejected. I have no memory of the accident but what I do recall is floating outside my body. The backside of my body was to me. I felt (what I know now was an angel) something wrap around my arms and legs. I started being pulled back into my body when I was overwhelmed with the feeling of peace and calm. I knew that I was in an accident that I was being protected and that I would survive. I suffered 19 broken bones and internal injuries. (All to the torso) not one limb was broke or scraped. NDE due to auto accident.

Joelle L Possible NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 I remember being somewhere where it was very bright. there were others with me. I think like 3 or 4 others. we were in a group. there were others I sensed them but I could not see them. The ones I saw are funny. It seemed like all I saw of them were heads and small wings. we communicated mentally only. I heard farther away someone saying there is a body available, but you must act quick. I said Ill go. but one of the others close to me said No its too soon for you. I said I don't care I want to go. And they said you must go now or it will be t0o late. Next thing I remember is being in a crib… I was born breech at home after hours of labor. when I finally came I was almost black/blue and not breathing. They wrapped me up and put me on the table. A while later the midwife came, and she worked and worked on me and I finally started to breath. Possible NDE remembrance from birth.

Jacqui C NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 From Australia I HYPERVENTILATED AND STOPPED BREATHING. I FELT LIKE IN THE FORM OF ' ALIENS' BUT THESE MAY HAVE BEEN GUARDIAN ANGELS LIFTING ME AWAY FROM EARTH INTO THIS AMAZING BRIGHT LIGHT THAT WAS LIKE A TUNNEL. I FELT SO MUCH LOVE AND BEAUTY. IT WAS A PEACEFUL EXPERIENCE I DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE. I WAS GIVEN A CHOICE AS I WAS TRAVELLING DOWN THIS TUNNEL TO LIVE OR CARRY ON THROUGH THE TUNNEL. I WAS GOING THROUGH A NEGOTIATION AS TO WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF I DIED AND HOW BADLY IT WOULD EFFECT MY MOTHER , HUSBAND ETC AND ALSO SAW MY FUTURE THAT I HAD NOT EXPERIENCED HAVING CHILDREN YET AND HAD ALOT MORE THINGS TO ACCOMPLISH. IT WAS NOT MY TIME. I REMEMBER THINKING WE LIVE ON EARTH AND WE ARE HUMANS AND SAW FROM A HIGHER LEVEL HOW WE EXIST ON EARTH. I FELT LIKE IT WASN'T TIME YET SO HELD MY HUSBAND NEXT TO ME AND STARTED BREATHING AGAIN AND FELT MYSELF GO BACK DOWN TO EARTH. NDE due to allergic reaction with respiratory arrest.

Tara V NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 I fell off the back of a motorcycle because the man I was dating at the time hit the car in front of him. I rolled a bit and looked behind me and saw a bumper heading right for me. I had no where to go it was in an instant. I felt the crunch of my bones or body. In an instant I did not know who or what I was or where. It was like I was moving very fast and pictures where flashing in front of me one after another and so on. It was kind of confusing. All of a sudden I saw the brightest light but I don't remember seeing clearly just actual beings almost on another side. I felt this complete happiness and feeling of just everything was lifted and I was to go. I could hear people telling me I must go back. I think it could have been my grandfather. I didn't want to go back or even understand why I was suppose to go. The feeling was euphoric. All of a sudden it was like I came out and popped out of a very bright bubble. As soon as I came back I knew I would be ok but I could not talk or move yet. NDE due to being run over by car.

Gordon M NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 After I was shot I ran about 100 yards, It was right after midnight, No one would stop to help, I laid down in the middle of the street, I saw myself laying on the ground with people around me. I knew I was going to die , My life did not flash before me like a movie or images, I experienced the following (with complete clarity and comprehension -instantly I was aware of every negative interaction with other human beings in my life, I knew if I remained where I was I would feel and experience every harmful thing I had caused others knowingly or not in my life, as they had, it was very frightening because the collective emotional pain was overwhelming. I somehow sensed I was given a choice to go back-I prayed sincerely for the first time in my life, it was simple, I promised to be the best person I could be-The next awareness I had was looking in the faces of two men over me, they were Fire Department paramedics, I asked one of them (very adamantly ) if I was going to die, told him to tell me the truth because I was trying to make my peace with God. NDE due to being shot with shotgun.

Jeanne NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 From Australia Picking flowers for mum on the way home from school. The nicest ones grew on the edge. I bent over to pick them and fell down below was a stream and rugged rocks. No fear, I just thought oh I am falling. Then nothing, just blackness, then I heard the noise and felt like I was being hurtled quickly through the darkness. Then came the big noise the huge crack like thunder, then the great big blinding light and bang its like they shocked me to come back, it was not my time. I don't know how I survived my face in the water or how long I was out. My arm was bust and I was badly bruised and suffering shock. Never forgot the light or the noise! NDE at age 6 due to drowning.

D.I. Fear Death Experience English expanded version 2/15/2009 I left work around 9:30 pm. It was raining steady but not hard. I was heading toward the interstate on-ramp that I always take to head home. I saw the on-ramp speed limit sign. As soon as I did...I turned my wheel to take the right turn. At which point my car went off the road to a wet grassy shoulder, with a line of trees dead ahead. As soon as my car left the road, everything seemed to slow down. I remember being able to think and figure out what do, figure out all the outcomes. I saw my wife as clear as day standing right before me. After what seemed like a few moments, I remember pushing my clutch in and jamming the brakes. The car slid to a stop, about 3 feet from smashing into a tree. Once I had stopped, I got out the car. Had I not stopped the car, it would have smashed into several trees that lined along side a ditch. Fear Death Experience from near auto crash.

Don M NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 From Canada. THE TUG WAS GETTING CLOSER AND AS RICKS HEAD WAS GOING TO GET IT AND I COULDN'T LET HIM GO I SQUARED MY SHOULDERS AND THOUGHT THAT MAYBE I'D JUST BREAK A SHOULDER. WELL THE TUG JUST KEPT ON COMING AND I KNEW IT HAD TO STOP SOON BUT BY THEN I REALIZED I COULDN'T GET OUT IF I TRIED. AT FIRST I THOUGHT MY RIBS WERE GOING TO CAVE IN AND THEN I SAID GOODBYE TO MY FAMILY AND I THOUGHT MY HEAD WAS GOING TO POP OFF. THEN A FRIEND FROM BACK HOME IN GLEN WAS RIGHT BESIDE ME. BRUCE AND HE SAID "IT'S OKAY RELAX YOUR WELCOME" HE WAS GUIDING ME TOWARDS THE MOST BRILLIANT LIGHT AND A ROARING TUNNEL. IN MY MIND I ASKED WHAT WAS HAPPENING? A VOICE CAME A MALE VOICE JUST KIND OF MATTER-OF-FACTLY YOU ARE DROWNING INSTANTLY I SAW MY MOTHER AND MY TWO LITTLE SISTERS MARY-LOU AND LORNA CRYING AT THE KITCHEN TABLE LIKE I NEVER WANT TO SEE ANYBODY LIKE THAT AGAIN. I YELLED OUT "NO" AND NOT KNOWING WHERE I WAS JUST STARTED KICKING . NDE due to drowning.

Norma B NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 Unable to breathe in or out at all, I struggled for breath until I didn't need to breathe anymore. At that moment, a great peace came over me. My head fell over to the right and down, and my consciousness (soul?) lifted to the right and up to the corner of the room, where I watched what was happening below. I thought about my two grown sons, neither of whom I had told about the surgery. It was an indifferent, wondering feeling to think how surprised they would be to learn I was dead. I watched as the two nurses near me suddenly realized there was a problem. "Look at those splotches on her face!" "She's not breathing!" Then there was a flurry of activity as they called for the anesthesiologist. They pressed on my chest to resuscitate me. I started breathing again, was suddenly back in my body, and they were injecting adrenaline into my groin. NDE due to respiratory arrest after surgery.

Vickey G NDE English expanded version 2/15/2009 I had not been aware that I was feeling dizzy or anything while I was standing off to the side of the exam. I felt perfectly normal. The next thing I remember was that I saw myself crumpled onto the floor. I was floating above my own body and the sensation was euphoric, it was a feeling of perfection in the highest form. I was completely weightless, and hovering over my own body in complete bliss. I watched and listened suspended above my own body. At the same time it was as though all questions of the universe had been answered in that one moment. The nurse exclaimed “Oh my gosh, doctor, what happened?” The doctor turned as quickly as the nurse had and was checking me. I could see my lifeless body lying there, the eyes were shut and the face was expressionless. NDE due to faint in doctor’s office.

Laurie S NDE English expanded version 2/11/2009 From Spain, Original in English, translated by Simon. I said yes, and immediately lost consciousness, seeing images of my life like snapshots, from early childhood up to the age I was at that time, seeing and understanding the meaning of all these pictures, although they flashed by at remarkable speed. Suddenly I entered a dark tunnel, feeling all the time at peace and in harmony, feeling wonderful, and in a bit a light appeared and there was someone, an entity, in two dimensions, without human features. I noticed other presences, as if they were accompanying me, but there was no one I knew. I wanted to stay there, but I was told I had to go back; I was urged to leave, I still had things to do, and soon I saw a burst of light, saw myself on the ground and my mother and my friends, the people of that place circled round me, looking at me and asking if I was OK. NDE after going unconscious.

Silvan NDE English expanded version 2/8/2009 From Italy, Original in Italian, translated by Amy. Immobile, eyes open, no respiration, as confirmed by my girlfriend. And without thought, I'm always thinking, I am a very logical person yet in that moment I was without thought. All of a sudden I felt so peaceful the way I never felt before, a deep peace, the body no longer existed and it was as though it had never existed, none of my memories ever existed, pain never existed, memory of pain, no recollection of anything, only serenity and a white light all around me, blinding, a light cold in tone but warm, I don't know if I can succeed in making you understand, it's as though you have your arms wide open on a summer's night and your eyes closed and you feel the synchronicity of everything. Then a worry made me turn from where I was, it was a worry, I knew that I would never have been able to return without that worry that made me come back, and I don't know if it was the right thing to come back. In any case it was only in that instant when I returned that I felt the worry, I was still advancing but at the same time turned towards whence I had come. With the same peace that I described above. NDE after going unconscious.

Isabelle M NDE English expanded version 2/7/2009 From Canada, Original in French, translated by Simon. All of a sudden, I found myself floating in a tunnel, proceeding at great speed, floating/flying. There was quite a strong buzzing sound. On either side of the tunnel were very bright images. I recognized myself, as a child. It was like a film. I kept going forward through the luminous tunnel, and it was very pleasant. The feeling I had was of infinite fulfilment. Then a moment came when I was brought up short by a "wall" of dense light, which gave off an unbelievable goodness, an indescribable love. And I heard a voice filled with tenderness say to me: "It's not time, you must go back, it's much too soon." NDE after going unconscious.

Alida V NDE English expanded version 2/7/2009 From Italy, Original in Italian, translated by Amy. [T]here was someone close by, I can’t say who it was, and I was fascinated by the “sun” that I saw shining overhead, it drew me towards it, it was irresistible, I wanted to go to the “sun” but someone telepathically told me I couldn’t. I thought that I was awake and that my body was still in this world, so I stopped for a moment and wondered why the “sun” attracted me so, and why I couldn’t go towards it. But at the same time I knew “I don’t know how” that I wasn’t allowed to go to the “sun.” So I decided to disobey that voice inside of me that told me I couldn’t because the attraction was really too great. Then in a fraction of a second as I was attempting to go towards that light I was projected into my body and I heard some people who were telling me to throw up the water. Child NDE from near drowning.

Miriam P NDE English expanded version 2/4/2009 From Venezuela, Original in Spanish, translated by Amy. It seemed as though there were fractions of a second in which I saw scenes of my life with my family, my children, my husband and my work colleagues and I asked myself why, since there was so much more for me to do, when the most beautiful music surrounded me and I resigned myself to staying. Then I saw my 20 year old son leaning against a wall, my sister-in-law was asking him how my husband was doing and he answered he’s better now, and then I realized that hours had passed and I heard my other son, he was walking and they had already told him about my death, I was sad thinking about the pain that my death was causing everybody and I said to myself that I needed to go back, it wasn’t fair even if the peace and serenity that I was feeling was so wonderful and unexplainable. NDE from surgery complications and under anesthesia.

John S NDE 3876 English expanded version 1/25/2009 From Sweden, Original in Swedish, translated by Maria A. I will never forget that face! It was so full of a welcoming, a non-demanding, warm smile of love… In that inviting face, as in the whole experience, there was nothing else than a complete pure and total love, unlimited comprehension, kindness, and real affectionate, sympathetic and warm humour. I cry now as I remember that ( though I didn't believe I would, after all these years ! ). There was a silent direct communication, which I am not able to “ translate” into written or spoken words, neither specially into an image. I just felt, from that wonderful face, that I was both welcome and expected; exactly as if I had seen that face before, and much more… As if everything was so well-known, so familiar and so self-evident. Nearly as if I had been away in a long, long journey in a foreign country , and after a time I finally had come back again! Home, where everything was so well-known and safe. I felt the exuberant joy of returning home, of being able to come back. NDE from a criminal attack.

Jason N NDE English expanded version 1/25/2009 I was awaken up by someone I did not know. He was a white man and he had a suit on. He said his name was Michael and for me to come with him. I looked and there was a tunnel where the was was. I looked at myself on the floor where I slept by my sister. I saw her sleeping in the bed. I looked back at him and took his hand. For some reason I trusted him. I had a feeling that he was a good person. We walked through the wall into a tunnel. There was a bright light and he stopped and told me to go through it. I remember stepping through and it became a bright sunny day. A beautiful place and children playing with lions and everyone was so happy. they all looked at me and told me to go meet them. There was 2 glowing figures. I could not see there face but on was sitting on a throne and one was standing next to the other. A thunderous voice spoken and the other man said it is not time my son, go back and take care of people. NDE at age 8 due to breathing cessation secondary to sleep apnea.

Taylor P NDE English expanded version 1/25/2009 EXCEPT THIS TIME THERE WAS NO FLOOR UNDER MY FEET AND I COULD NOT SWIM. NATURALLY I BEGAN WAILING AROUND AND SCREAMING AS I WOULD TRY TO COME UP FOR BREATH AND DOGGIE PADDLE. I WASN'T GOOD AT THAT EITHER. GRADUALLY, I MADE IT TO THE SURFACE LESS AND LESS. I WASN'T FRIGHTENED, I JUST WANTED TO BREATH. I WASN'T NOT FRIGHTENED BECAUSE I WAS FEARLESS, IT WAS BECAUSE I WAS SO FOCUSED ON GETTING AIR THAT I DIDN'T HAVE THE THOUGHT TO BE FRIGHTENED. THEN G-D CAME TO ME. THERE WERE TWO ANGELS ON EITHER SIDE OF ME, ON EACH SIDE OF MY SHOULDER BEHIND ME, ALMOST ABOVE MY SHOULDERS, BUT NOT WHERE I COULD SEE. I ONLY SAW A GLIMMER OF THEIR LIGHT. THEN G-D TOLD ME TO BREATH THE WATER IN LIKE IT WAS AIR. INSTANTLY AS I HEARD HIS VOICE I HAD A CALM AND PEACE THAT CAN NOT BE EXPERIENCED IN BREATHING LIFE. NDE at age 8-9 due to drowning.

Lauren H NDE English expanded version 1/25/2009 I slipped back into an unconscious state and I remember seeing this VERY bright, yet not blinding light. I had the sensation of floating upward thru darkness and past shadows that had no form. Then as I continued upward, I got to a point where I couldn't go any closer to the light...my loved ones were there and the kept telling me to go back, that it wasn't my time yet. I wanted to stay. I felt love, peace, as if I were home. Then I felt like I made a decision. And at that very moment I made my mind up, I was "sucked" backwards into life. Back onto Earth. I woke up inside an ambulance. I do remember prior to waking hearing a man say "we lost her". And then when I came back...."she's ok". NDE due to accident.

Brent L NDE English expanded version 1/25/2009 That afternoon I had pain in my back. This had been the sign for the need for angioplasty and stent placement before, so I knew what to do. While awake and on the operating table, my Dr. was talking to me with his usual back and forth that occurs during an angioplasty when he suddenly yelled, "cough, Brent, cough!!!!" I managed to get one cough out and then I was rushing through a completely black hallway. As I moved there were living photos of the same people I had dreamed about the night before. They were smiling and gesturing me to move ahead. I looked forward, not to see a light, but a large picture window of blue on the left side of the hallway. The most perfect blue was shining through and I worked my way so I could see the view. I was just turning to see out of the window as I approached...and then my Dr's face was in mine saying, "What did you see?" NDE during angioplasty.

Carole NDE English expanded version 1/25/2009 The doctor was saying that "it was nothing to worry about" when all of a sudden he said " OMG her lips are turning blue". I then stopped breathing.. I saw myself looking down at my own body and wondered "what are they all scared for?". Why is everyone running around? I then felt the most amazing "LOVE" imaginable. There was peace in my heart. I knew there was a wonderful place for me to go when I was done. There was a bright white light and I felt the most incredible love ( peace, forgiveness, tranquility )ever. I knew I was dying and I wanted to go to the light. I was very disappointed when I heard a voice ( and I knew it was a higher power) say....You are not finished yet. You cannot die. There is so much more you have to do". NDE due to asthma attack at age 13. Experiencer is a professor and a nurse.

Jay K NDE English expanded version 1/17/2009 Driving truck too fast. Got on exit ramp that was elevated, truck slid into barrier wall on right side that stopped truck from rolling over, I saw wall was ending, I thought I was going to roll over so I turned wheel hard left and truck went into wall on the other side of road head on. the truck was destroyed and I saw myself laying on floor of truck with materials from passenger side of seat on my body.( from the ceiling area of the truck ). I was not wearing a seat belt because I always had a feeling something like this would happen, I even practiced what I called ( the dive move) where I dove to passenger side of a vehicle practicing for this sort of accident. I was not hurt , I did not even end up with a scratch. It seemed like only seconds I saw myself laying on the floor of truck and I thought to myself (I am dead ) then I saw myself move on truck floor and thought I am alive. Police showed up, I asked how did you get there so fast, he said he got call about 20 minutes ago, so I guess I was out 20 minutes. NDE due to truck accident.

Harley W NDE English expanded version 1/9/2009 From Canada I was playing by a slide area and was struck in the head with a rock. I was in a coma for 3 days and during this time I died 3 times. At the hospital during the times I did not show any vital signs I remember hearing the nurses and doctors talking about my condition and the various procedures they were using to try to get me back to life. After each episode I would wake and ask the nurses and doctors what certain procedures were and I called them by name. The doctors were stunned and some nurses left the room crying. During each episode I floated above my body and rose up and went to the window and looked out at a bright summer day . Then floated back to above my bed and overhead what the medical teams were doing to get me back to life. I thought I was dreaming but I could recite all the procedures by name and the medical teams were stunned cause I never went to medical school obviously, so they could not explain it . NDE at age 7 due to head injury.

Cassandra K NDE English expanded version 1/9/2009 From Australia We were at a friends house, I went into a bedroom sat on a bed and shot up the heroin. I was told that I died, only after did I realize what I had experienced was a near death experience. I remember all of a sudden I was conscious and aware of myself and I was somewhere else, but it was dark and I couldn't see anything but I wasn't afraid. I was very much aware of the fact that I was not in my body anymore but i was ok, I remember thinking where am I? I was aware that I was still here, that my brain still worked even though I had no body and I was happy to know that this was possible. I knew in that moment that we will always exist, this was the predominate feeling I had , this awareness of my soul continuing on without a body. I have always felt since that day that there is no need for me to fear death because I know it's not the end. I never did drugs again after that, I was lucky that my friend came into the room and found me in time. She said I was black in the face and that I was not breathing, my heart was beating so slowly that it was almost non existent. I was brought back by paramedics and all of a sudden I could feel air in my lungs again and I was back. NDE due to accidental heroin overdose.

Kate B Possible NDE English expanded version 1/9/2009 Then there was a sudden awareness that I had to go back now. It was as like I went through a dimension, like a wall I popped through and then I was floating in the darkest space. There were bright stars all around. I thought - oh no, there's been a mistake, and I saw forms of hands and arms trying to reach me through this dimensional wall. They couldn't get me. I felt they were crying 'Catch her, catch her'! I was floating through space and began to get very worried. I knew that this was the 'real me', and that my 'dream me' was having a surgery and that something wrong had happened. I felt as though I floated in this darkest space for a very long time, and had lots of time to realize that I was in serious trouble. There was nothing around me but bright stars far away and I was totally alone. Parotid surgery. No life-threatening event. OBE to space, felt she was with people she knew forever.

Patrick M NDE English expanded version 1/9/2009 Experience was definitely real For me it was a wake up call, or more like a huge SMACK in the face, WAKE UP Quit living your life in the way I had been, And to become a better human being in all ways, my personal relationships, my professional relationships, etc etc...IT TOTALLY changed me... NDE due to electrocution (12,000 volts, 15 amps).

Chen M NDE English expanded version 1/9/2009 From China. I didn't know how to describe him. He had no shape or voice, but he was bright and broadminded, warm and gentle. He could answer every question. He surrounded me and guided me. He communicated me with telepathy. He revealed everything of the universe. I was no longer in the tunnel but I was in the bright warm world. I felt a complete relief from pain and suffering. I felt the existence of everlasting harmony and happiness. He told me everything that I wanted to know. He told me the world is consisted by molecules and atoms and they keeps moving. Then he showed me a tree that beside my window in my room. What surprised me is that I had greatly improved my vision incredibly. I did see a world with moving molecules and atoms. The feeling was extraordinary and I can felt my consciousness was much faster then ever before. I asked him whether I'm a part of the world too and he said yes. He told me everything is moving, there was no death, there was no birth, everything is just cycling eternally. He said that this is the very truth of universe. Very detailed NDE from China. Relatively rare non-Western NDE. From posted Internet account, translated by volunteer translator.

JMH NDE English expanded version 1/2/2009 …I heard the Code Blue called to my room. I was above the bed watching people working on me and someone, a being was at my side. I was peaceful and said to the being “I’m so glad they are putting me on those machines, I couldn’t breathe anymore”. I felt light and bodiless, and the peaceful being steered me to another place. It was light and awesome; I rested there for a long time, although really there was no sense of time. I guess I rested there until I felt like participating in conversation. I noticed I had no body, but felt perfectly warmed and there was a sense of love and peace rushing through me, like blood in veins… but I had no veins and nothing to “feel” with. I started wondering where I was and looked outside my light pod, which had no inside or outside, but for sake of description I will say pod, and I saw others just exactly like me, and a great light pod in the center of all of us, millions of us, floating in the otherwise dark void with a pure golden light connecting each of us to the center pod. The golden thread of light was like an umbilical cord although it had no real form but just light, and it was delivering the peace and love of the center being. NDE due to respiratory arrest secondary to illness (scleroderma).

Brenda W NDE English expanded version 1/2/2009 I fell back against my aunt and we hurtled down into the tunnel, and I heard my aunt say, "We just lost her." I thought it strange. If I was dead, why was I still in the tunnel? Why could I hear her say I was? I also thought it strange that I could see my uncle's face. He whirled around to see for himself. I can see his features still. At that point, deep in the tunnel--and I assumed for years it was the George Massey Tunnel but realize now that the George Massey had simply become the same tunnel others enter when going through a near death experience--I came out into Light. The Light is as others report. A warm bath of Light experienced as divine, as all knowing, complete Love, bliss. There was conversation without words and I understood I was to be sent back to live an abundant life. I begged not to. I then saw the red emergency sign of the hospital--again, a curiosity for me because I did not have the concept of being outside my body. I could not figure out how I could see something outside the car. NDE due to asthma attack at age 17.

Leslie B Possible NDE English expanded version 1/2/2009 I was very ill, and had asked a neighbor I didn't even know, to give me a ride to the doctor, because I couldn't even stand up, let alone drive. That night had the sensation I was falling very slowly, going around and around, through a dark tunnel. I had never been so at peace, I didn't want it to end. At some point, the thought passed through my mind, "No, you must go back, you have three small children to raise."

Noelia NDE English expanded version 1/1/2009 Original in Spanish, translated to English by Jenny. Then I became aware of a beautiful light and the darkness became clear and light and I saw myself there on the ground in the arms of my friend and I could hear echoes of voices. I descended back into my body and I saw a being leaning over me that I can't describe but I am sure it wasn't materially there from accounts from my friends and teacher, the thing is that I was conscious but everything looked blurred, I couldn't move and continued to have convulsions. This experience seemed to last a long time but in reality no more than 5 minutes had passed according to my teacher who took me to the nearest doctor. NDE from a 16 year old from an asthma attack.

Damaska C NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 I remembered that moment, it was a sensation of the veins stretching, and bursting. I felt the blood filled my head. Instant silence, numbness, and the stopping of everything, I can describe it content (nothing move, live, breathed). Instantly I was outside my body, surrounded by a landscape of natures beauty I seem to be flying without the aide of anything, or anyone. I was aware of my state, I was surely going somewhere, but where I did not know. I was passing over hills and valleys, there were all of these green trees, and shrub. I was taken up by its total beauty. but I knew that was not what it was all about. Then as if suddenly I now saw direct into my room. Apparent stroke or brain hemorrhage. NDE while on intense spiritual quest. She is a reverend, and was born in Trinidad/Tobago.

Richard M NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 from Canada I was in the hospital with , total heart block from my second open heart and my heart stopped , I sat up in bed grabbed my brother by the neck.............next thing I know I'm standing with this other guy in the hall and I'm laughing at the monitor that is flat and I'm thinking wait till that guy figures out what's going on. Then my brother turns and looks out into the hall , next thing I'm really warm absolutely no pain and I'm thinking like I've never felt so positive in thought. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Raymond C NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 I didn't see a light or deceased loved ones but I recall looking at [ although I had no eyes or a body ] at a bluish green almost translucent membrane. This membrane dominated an entire side of wherever I was. I could not see through this membrane but I could see shadow movement going on behind it and and hear sounds and could feel the presence of many some things behind it. I not only had very enhanced senses but my sense of taste an smell were so enhanced that I could taste and smell this membrane. Each time they stopped my heart I saw this with perfect clarity. I wasn't afraid but looking at it but I could sense great energy behind this membrane and it did not seem entirely benign. Nor did it seem evil. It was like there were a great many different personalities interacting with each other behind it. NDE due to medically induced cardiac arrest to treat cardiac arrhythmia.

Michael K NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 I can remember the EMT's saying I was dead, and discussing the use of charcoal. But I was leaving for another place. I do not remember the transition/journey. But I was fully cognizant of the place I was in. I had no sensations, heat, cold, sound, light, touch, not even pain. I felt my eyes were functioning normally. I had no trouble breathing. I felt I was in a place of great sorrow. All was black, as I felt my eyes were working the darkness seemed to go on forever into the distance in all directions. I turned in different directions searching the darkness, listening, but there was nothing. It seemed forever but then light, the lights and the ceiling of the ER came into focus. They had revived me. NDE due to suicide attempt. Void experience.

Michael H NDE 3853 English expanded version 12/27/2008 I then lost consciousness once again. Sometime between that moment and the time I was being off loaded from the medical helicopter at the hospital, I had the out of body near death experience. I was in an atmosphere of absolute white that had no ending anywhere. It was an unending white void. Suddenly, my late parents came to greet me but I do not recall them speaking to me. Other people were there suddenly and I did not recognize any of them. I was at total peace and comfort. Then, just as suddenly, I was awakened by the gurney that I was upon hitting a bump on the roof of the hospital in which the helicopter had landed upon. I was saddened because I wanted to return to my comfort zone. As I was being treated in the emergency room, I again passed out and went into a coma for two days. During that time I had the near death experience again and it was similar to the first one. NDE due to severe trauma from car accident.

Dorothy S NDE as told by Daughter English expanded version 12/27/2008 My mother told me the following recollection. She was sick in the ER and on a table, lying there and getting worked on when suddenly she was floating in the room above her body. She could see and hear the doctors and nurses in the room. She saw my father threaten the doctor as described in the previous question. The next thing she knew she was floating at high speed down a long, perfectly black tunnel with the sensation of being enfolded in soft, luxurious black velvet. She used the words "black velvet" in her description. She described how wonderful she felt, how good it was, with the complete absence of pain and struggle. No trouble breathing, no distress of any kind. A feeling of pure physical well being and overwhelming goodness and relief. Then abruptly, she felt as if she had reached the end of the tunnel when she saw a bright light that had been getting brighter as she moved towards it. There were people there she did not recognize and one spoke to her. He said that she could stay if she wanted to but it really wasn't time yet, that she still had something important to do. Daughter shares mother’s NDE due to asthma attack in 1951. Mother is now deceased.

Linda K NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 I turned to my right in the midst of that stream and looked straight into the eyes of Jesus. My Savior was standing on the side of the water where my Grandparents had been on a level just a little above me. I shall never forget his eyes. They were dark and so full of love. I knew he knew every thing about me from inside, out. I knew he instantly knew every thought I had ever had, every act I had ever done, everything, totally everything about me. I felt no fear at all. Just the strongest love I have ever felt from anyone anywhere in my entire existence. That love was real and sort of wrapped me up and cuddled me. Not Jesus, but the love which poured from Him to me was almost tangible. I wanted to go to Him. NDE due to several cardiac arrests. Remarkably vivid NDE considering the severe brain damage and amnesia she suffered as a result of these cardiac arrests.

Anita K Possible NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 Next thing I remember is being in very bright light, looking down on my body, a body that meant nothing to me. I did not see the room or Doctors or husband or anything else in the room, my body was also surrounded by light. I was stunned, instead of being in awe or seeing the beauty, all I could think of was my 13 year old mentally handicapped son, and my new baby. I could feel God (I think it was God) and I said to him, "no God I'm not ready" there was no need for words, it's like my thoughts were all that was needed. next thing I heard was someone yelling at me to breath. That breath I took was the most beautiful breath I ever took, it was like I couldn't stop taking in air and it went all threw my body down to my toes, that's the only way I can describe it. After C-section. OBE above body, saw body surrounded by light in OR, but nothing else. Felt presence of God. No clear imminent life-threatening event in OR or in recovery area that could be corroborated.

Dave W Possible NDE English expanded version 12/27/2008 I closed my eyes and suddenly found myself in another place. I was a consciousness, and I could see all around me. I was in a very small close valley, almost a very wide ravine. It was in full Technicolor and seemed real. I could sense a light breeze, there was no sound. I was the only one there, and no one else had been there for a long long time. I was on one side of this place. I could see up hill, down hill, and across to the other side. The grass seemed closely cut and green, and yet I felt like no one had been there for hundreds of years. It was a forgotten place, and I was totally alone. Recovering from heart bypass surgery. No clear imminent life-threatening event at time of experience.

David G NDE English expanded version 12/26/2008 From Spain. Original in Spanish, translated to English by Simon. This was an entity of white light, without definite form and hovering in the air. It was not exactly there, but I sensed its presence. It did nothing. While this was going on, I had the vision of a dog which was bounding towards me with its tongue out; obviously full of good intentions. The person seated between the other two, on my right, struck the table with a gavel, while holding up some papers in the other hand. Then he said my name, and: «He is condemned to go on living». NDE from post operative complications.

Nora NDE English expanded version 12/20/2008 From the UK. I felt like the whole world stood still. I didn't feel hard of breath, I felt calm. Next thing I know, I feel my spirit being lifted from by body - more specifically by my shoulders and I looked up (P.S. the pool was indoors) and the whole ceiling was this gorgeous white light as if a portal I felt drown to it in a way, at the time I was looking down and could see my cousin standing and the nannies frantic talking 'what should we do they said' in Hindi but I understood it ( I don't speak Hindi) at the time it felt weird I could see down at them but at the same time I could see the tiles and the water around me in the pool as if they were all one. I remember looking down and having my whole life explained, to feeling the love of the people in my life, and most of all feeling like I had a choice to live. NDE due to drowning in Qatar at age 10-11.

Anna-Mari Possible NDE English expanded version 12/20/2008 From Estonia I was rather ill and had a high temperature, about 39,9 C and I was lying in my bed. I closed my eyes and suddenly I saw this intense light that was everywhere. The next moment I was in a place and it was fuzzy and in the background I could see light again. I also saw a figure who was standing in the light and reaching his/her had to me. I tried to walk towards him/her, but I couldn't because there were an invisible wall between us. And when I tried to walk through it I couldn't because it hindered me. Then I saw the exact same light as at the beginning of the experience. The kind of light which filled everything. And I opened my eyes. Age 11. Illness, temp 39.9. Saw light everywhere & another being. No clear life-threatening event.

Greg B NDE English expanded version 12/20/2008 And behind them there were people side by side 20 or even 40 wide all the way to the horizon. Thousands of people now after being judged by GOD and stepping out of the bright light, and seeing everyone the words out of my mouth to my mama were. Who the hell are all these people? And she what do you mean baby they are you they are all you. I knew that meant that everyone I saw was from the generations before me all the back to the very start. The only male I got close to was my uncle Herschel who was pushing his way with force to reach me I think he I wasn't going to be there long, but just before he touched me my brother found me rolled me on my side and cleared my air way. Snap in a instant I was back in this life, since coming back my family and I have researched our ancestry only to find out that everything and everyone I saw was accurate. NDE due to infection of the CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) and seizure.

Robin M NDE English expanded version 12/20/2008 Flat-lined - went to a place that was beautiful lit - like the sunshine but much prettier and more golden (kind of like sepia tones). Seemed like a neighborhood and I was shown around to all the people I loved and missed and they were all so happy. I remember being surprised like Oh - Hi....wow your here how nice and smiling very broadly. Remember my Dad sitting on a stoop of sorts with his hand outstretched to me. He was many years younger than he was when he died and I was just a toddler reaching up to him. I know I saw lots of people but cant remember who they were specifically except for my Dad. Next thing I know the EMT is saying "you died and we brought you back" and I said I saw my Dad and that I couldn't die now because it was Christmastime and that would be too difficult a memory for my daughter to bear every Christmas. NDE due to heart attack. Experience shared one week later.

Roxie J NDE English expanded version 12/20/2008 I WAS REAR-ENDED AND CONFUSED, SEEING MY CAR DRIFTING TOWARD THE STOPPED CAR IN FRONT OF ME WHEN MY FOOT WAS COMPLETELY ON THE BRAKE AND I HAD BEEN FULLY STOPPED JUST SECONDS PRIOR. I FELT AS THOUGH I WAS SPINNING AS I BUMPED THE CAR IN FRONT OF ME, AND THEN LOOKING AHEAD I SAW THEM. TWO SEMI'S COMING AT ME FULL FORCE, I COULD HEAR THE JAKE BRAKES, THEY WERE ABOUT 50 FEET FROM ME, ONE IN EACH LANE. I KNEW I WAS GOING TO DIE IN THE NEXT FEW MOMENTS. AND I WAS FULLY OK WITH THIS REVELATION. THEN MY WORLD STOPPED. I SAW A BRIGHT FLASH OF LIGHT BRIGHTER THAN THE SUN, THERE WAS COMPLETE SILENCE. DIAMONDS WERE IN THE LIGHT SHINING AND FALLING ALL AROUND ME. I WAS SPINNING, FLYING, FLOATING. IT WAS WARM, AND PLEASANT FEELING. I CAME TO AND REALIZED MY CAR WAS HANGING OFF THE SIDE OF AN OVERPASS, THE AIRBAG WAS DEPLOYED AND I WAS CUT FROM THE GLASS OF THE WINDOWS. Auto accident. Experience may have begun prior to impact of semi on her car suggesting a component of Fear-Death Experience.

Fabia NDE English expanded version 12/17/2008 From Tunisia, Original in French, translated to English by Amy. The I exit my body and ascend to the ceiling; I see my body entwined in bloody curtains, a door that keeps opening and closing. I am very far above, as if the ceiling were very high. The words "we can't save her! the car that was bringing blood was in an accident! we are sorry." My mother's cries: all this must be happening in hushed tones, but I hear it so clearly and loud, it's metallic. I think: "it's not possible that they are screaming so loudly!!!!" And then a deep well-being throughout my body, a desire to rejoin the scintillating brilliant light that is drawing me to it. But I hear my mother's cries and refuse to leave her. When I wake up, my head is pointed down and my chest hurts, it's hard to breathe. NDE from childbirth complications.

Marisol A NDE English expanded version 12/17/2008 From Quito, Chile. She recalls everything turning black. Then she felt as if she was going very fast through some sort of a tunnel and was able to see everything that had happened the previous days. In the whirlpool, she even saw the things she wanted to buy . She felt bewildered at first. Then she saw herself on the floor, very pale and her frantic husband kneeling next to her trying to resuscitate her. When her daughter walked in crying, Marisol felt sorry for them. When the paramedics arrived she watched how the CPR was applied and how she was taken into the ambulance. She felt very calm and at peace. While she was inside the ambulance she realized it was going to be too difficult for her husband to raise their daughter by himself. He would have to leave his job to manage the coffee shop. Her daughter was still very young and needed guidance. After all these thoughts she decided that she could not leave yet. Second-Hand NDE from Chile.

Suzy B NDE English expanded version 12/17/2008 A formless presence from inside the light told me without words that I needed to live. I refused them because I did not want to return to a life and body filled with constant pain. They told me that they needed me to live, and I told them that I needed to be with them. The light felt like a transitory place between earth and the next place, and I wanted to move on to the next place rather than going back. They expressed that I had an important purpose to fulfill for the Earth that was vital to the divine plan for our world. I did not care at the time, and still wanted to move on. Then they showed me an image of my young daughter, insisting that my return was vital to her growth, and I felt the desperate despair she would experience for many years if I did not return. I then agreed to return. They instructed me how to bring myself back. Instead of being enveloped by the light, I was to envelope the light within myself and use its power to re-manifest and strengthen my physical being. I concentrated on the light pulled it in to myself. NDE due to adverse reaction to medical treatment.

Marie C NDE English expanded version 12/16/2008 From Canada, Original in French, translated to English by Amy. When I lost consciousness. I was floating in the water and I called out to my sister telepathically. I saw where she was sitting at the edge of the pool and I asked her to signal to someone that I was missing and that they should locate me. Right after I came to (after CPR) my thoughts were concentrating on the color blue. I was telling myself: "It's really beautiful here. I have never seen a blue as beautiful as this." But then I saw faces appearing in the blue sky and asked myself what these people were doing in my sky. It was the people witnessing the accident who were standing above me and who I saw appear one after the other. Child drowning at age 12.

Francesco I NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Original in Italian, translated to English by Amy. So that's what I was doing and then realized how bad the situation was when the force of the ocean dragged me out. Suddenly I was outside of my body and I see myself under water surrounded by dead algae, at the mercy of the currents. I saw very well what was happening when my vision was turned upside down. Now my image was changed and narrowed so that I saw myself in an egg with my head down in the fetal position. I came back to life and the wave that had brought me back to shore had also hurled me near my companions. Child Drowning at age 7

Michelle J Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I woke up during the night struggling to breath - I also remember the pain in my collarbone - it was extremely uncomfortable. Suddenly, I had floated upwards to the area of the ceiling in my room that was located near the bedroom window. I looked down and could see my body!!! Of course I had no idea what had just happened, but I noticed a black figure laying over me - I immediately thought that this figure was directly connected to the reason why I had gravitated to the ceiling - at that point - I knew that the figure was death. Suddenly, the room became literally black - the blackness was so deep that it could be cut with a knife. I was afraid of the blackness - and there appeared to be a presence in the blackness that made my hair stand up on my head!!! At that time, I was still thinking in terms of having a body.... Suddenly, I began to call out the name of Jesus - very softly - it almost sound musical - it was very sweet. ...then without warning I began to see what had appeared to be a "pin-like" whole that appeared very, very bright! Probable NDE due to suffocation from tumor near trachea.

Bryce L NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I recall thinking to myself "So this is what it's like to be dead," and not knowing how much time I had I went roaming around the hospital. I knew there were people in beds in rooms and in the hallways following triage, I knew there were doctors moving around in the hallways and nurses checking on patients, I knew there were racks of clipboards attached to walls, there were carts and tanks and such along the walls... I didn't actually see them, as people think of the sense of sight, I just knew that's what they were. If I concentrated on something I knew that an orderly was wearing light blue scrubs, sneakers with white socks, and had a pair of ballpoint pens clipped to their shirt; I also knew that they (a random person, for the sake of discussion) were black, didn't shave that morning, was thinking about their daughter who'd gone to school sad that morning, had a couple of coins in his pocket... I knew what kinds of ideas were associated with things around me, I didn't actually interpret them as senses. NDE due to criminal attack at age 16.

Jamie N Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I was in a beautiful space that was filled with light. An male angel of whom cannot describe other than a being of light, was talking calmly to me. He told me that everything was going to be all right. I was going to come through this emergency and go on to live a very long and pleasant life. He said I would have little things happen as they do in life, but nothing really bad would happen to me. I would have mostly peace and much joy in my life. It was the most peaceful experience I have ever had. I was told that I had nothing to be afraid of and everything to live for. Probable NDE due to peritonitis with ruptured colon.

Bob L NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Fall out of a building - 3 story drop… The light was strong and somewhat unearthly at the end of a long tunnel. The light was as much love as anything in that it was pervasive. My relatives (all deceased) were there, all at their prime in life. They were dressed (I would say 1940's style which would have been prime years for most). Relatives I knew of, such as my grandfathers, but never knew in life were there as well as uncles/aunts who passed before I knew them. The unconditional love was overwhelming and permeated all of us genuinely and richly. There was no element of time and no verbally spoken word. Both time and verbal communication are of this world not needed in the NDE world. Everything was open thought communication. Time is the invention of man in this world, not a part of our core spirit. All of this was very clear to me in the NDE. Any question or uncertainty was confirmed/known through non-verbal understanding. NDE due to three story fall from building.

Brian C NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 When I got to emergency room lying on stretcher, was like I was looking down on myself and body no pain. Could here nurses and doctors talking, cutting my pants and clothes off. Nurse saying get a catheter, me peeing every where, laughing. Everything seemed real white and clear vivid 3-D... Then I black out the pain... seeing my bones popped out and blood... NDE due to motorcycle accident.

Nancy M NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Then, I seemed to be sitting on the end of a hospital bed and a very beautiful angel appeared standing before me. My arms were by my side and my hands were in my lap. She had a full head of very gold, shining hair, that seemed to glow like a halo, but it was her hair shining. Her eyes were pale blue and she was wearing a soft brown gown that criss-crossed in front. The gown was edged in gold and she has a golden rope tied around her waist. I have often wondered why her gown was brown. She wrapped her arms tightly around my body and looked straight into my eyes. She did not speak verbally, but with her eyes I knew she said. "You are not going anywhere, you are staying right here". Her eyes had this stern demanding look, but they also were filled with love. I could feel myself just smiling back at her. Then, I heard a voice in my right ear saying, "She had respiratory arrest". I opened my eyes and it was my Doctor telling my family what had happened. NDE due to respiratory arrest.

Carl G NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 The first telephone pole was, the moment I was thrown out of my body. Watching the car turning and twisting. I was saying; " Is it time , is it time." A voice came from on where, saying; "NO it is not time, No it is not time. At this same moment I was shot thought a tunnel of light. I was standing before Christ, the light behind Him, was so bright, you could not look at with human eyes. He told me; "No you must return for this reason, you will have a son born unto you, ( 3 years later to the very day my son Julian was born). Christ showed me my whole life, the good and the bad and all the rest. Then Christ said " That is all right, life is a learning experience." I was there for some time and Chris showed me much during that time. Some I was able to bring back, with me. Christ gave me a message to tell all> Christ said; " Tell them they must learn to love all that is around you, They must learn to love our God....OR Return to this world and live life all over again. OR They will lay down next to sleeping waters and drink from there of." NDE due to auto accident. A bit preachy.

Kathy T NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 The next I knew, I was up in the corner of the room, where the walls and the ceiling join. I could see myself, lying in the bed. I don't recall seeing a respirator, just the room and me lying on the bed. No one else was there. I looked for a moment, the looked directly across the room to the opposite corner. I then floated (more propelled) diagonally across the room into the the opposite corner and entered the corner. When I came out on the other side, it opened up into a tunnel. Something like you'd see in a movie where people are in a space craft. Soft, luminous light, definitely tunnel like. I was propelling rather slowly, when I felt like someone had just wrapped a comforter, fresh from the dryer warm, around me. I then felt so warm and relaxed, like I was literally lounging in someone's very large hands. There are no words to accurately describe the feeling. Peace, contentment, home...nothing comes close to being accurate. NDE due to illness.

Thomas B NDE 3820 English expanded version 12/15/2008 I felt I was no longer part of this world but had easily slipped into another existence. I began to see my life up until then as if I was watching a movie. Recognition time had sped up and what would have taken days to view was now flashing by but I was able to see and comprehend everything I was seeing and hearing incredibly clearly. I have to say that even sight and sound had taken a new form. I was experiencing everything differently. Memories were like dots that swept in, unfolded, and were consumed by my new vision. I felt so beautifully at peace. Comfortable beyond anything I had experienced before. I had this feeling though, that I shouldn't stray too far and even though I was free to go as I pleased I knew that if I continued I would be gone from the "other" world forever. I wasn't afraid at all just thinking maybe it was not time for me to leave. I thought of how hurt my mother would be. I then felt myself being lifted and painfully I returned to my old existence. The paramedics had arrived and were placing me on the gurney. The place I had been in was neither dark or light to me and the whole experience had lasted maybe 3 or 4 minutes of "old" time. There was no sense of time where I was. I remember no gravity nor did I sense any movement until I reentered this world. NDE due to criminal attack at age 17.

Chari H NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 About then, a light from above expanded above me. It filled the sky with a mass of bright colors. I felt a tugging sensation in my chest as the light started bringing me towards it. I felt Great Love coming from within the light. As I grew closer towards the light, I could see two figures coming towards me. I recognized them as my Great Grandfather who had passed away a few years earlier and my little brother who died at age 2. My Great Grandfather was standing there holding my little brothers hand. They were very happy to see me, but I wasn't happy to see them. That's when I realized that I was dead. I became very upset. He could read my thoughts and his thoughts entered my thoughts. We communicated back and forth telepathically. As soon as I had a thought, he had a answer for me. I wanted to live so I began to beg Jesus and God for my life back. I they were listening to me but I wasn't sure if they would grant me life. Remarkably detailed NDE at age 14 due to auto accident.

Rhea V Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 At first I seemed to be moving through a dark tunnel toward a white light at the far end. The tunnel and the light grew larger. Eventually I emerged into what seemed like a strange new world, dark and mysterious. I felt alone as I moved onward. Before me, blocking my way, was a dark ominous figure (it seemed to be a male). He wore a long hooded robe and was silhouetted against a glorious rosy glow from pastel clouds that filled the sky at some distance behind him. The rosy glow drew me and filled me with a marvelous sense of total love and acceptance. This was home, and I wanted to be there completely. But the figure would not let me pass. I couldn't see his face, but I wasn't afraid. I felt only tremendous love from him. Nor could I hear his words, but I could understand what he was telling me: I wasn't done yet, and I had to go back. I tried to protest. I didn't want to go back. I wanted to go into the rosy light. Probable NDE related to surgery.

Larry NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 As above, I watched myself fall in a kind of slow motion event but I was viewing it from above his right shoulder, about two or three feet above him. The light that was in the room was different, more luminous but not brighter. The detail of everything around me was incredible. It was like my skin was a sponge, that is to say that I could see in depth I couldn't before. I was completely at peace as I watched this and had no remorse what so ever. My girl friend then rushed over to me (the rest of the class was sitting on the floor waiting and watching the fight), She was crying and got down on her knees next to my head and cradled my head in her lap. I didn't understand why she was so upset. I looked at my body laying there and only saw it as an empty shell and had know feelings for it what so ever. I then felt the need to go back into my body because she was so distraught. NDE due to head injury during karate sparring.

Diane V Possible NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 First, there was a Disney bluebird. (remember, I was five) Then, there was a blue eyed blond Midwestern Jesus. There was a life review of the smallest details and lots of guilt. My Sunday school had taught that Jews didn't go to heaven. Even at five, I felt this was wrong and expressed concern. I was told, "we are all one". The Jesus figure changed into different races, genders. Dizzying. I picked out a Native American who lamented that he had died too soon. A Viking who put himself in chains in horse stalls. A Mongolian looking guy with a head dress with horns. And, a guy who had died on heather by his own hand. A couple of women, one of whom was older and spent time on a rocking chair on a farmhouse porch, yelled at me that he was messing up the place. I figured out later that these were past lives. I was told I had to fix the man who died in heather. I was told that I was there too soon and had to go back. Earth was vibrating much slower than this place. I had to go back, I had no choice. Age 5. Possible NDE. Past life review. Met Elizabeth. Apparently encountered many past lives. They were putting IV in, which they would not be doing if she were having a life-threatening event, and nurse told him after return that he never left. No clear imminent life-threatening event at time.

Atana NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Reaction to insulin blood sugar low...unconscious...cannot move or speak...seeing myself bathing in bright light...surrounded by 12 beings in white garments...I WAS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CIRCLE...i also saw shadow people in the corner of my back yard...they were told that they cannot come near me because I have done 108 good things in my life time.....I AM BACK IN MY BED ROOM LOTS OF THE EMERGENCY PEOPLE SURROUNDING ME...they put me in the ambulance...I HAVE NO PAIN AND I FEEL FINE. NDE due to reaction to insulin with low blood sugar.

Jenna P Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 The first thing I recall was floating in darkness. My head and torso was contained in a clear rectangular box which was filled with a plasma like substance. I was only a torso at this time I had no arms or legs that I could see or feel. I was surrounded by beings who were helping me. I cant describe what the beings looked like. They were just there helping me, taking care of me. I wasn't frightened at all. I felt comfortable and cared for. After I was no longer in the box I recall just floating. I didn't go anywhere in particular I was just floating in darkness. I experienced no negative feelings or emotions everything was just great. I had no worries at all, not a care in the world. When I try to explain it to people I just tell them that I am no longer afraid of death because being alive is a lot more difficult. The thing I remember the most from my experience is the ease of doing things. There was no stress or strain. I was just being and being was simple and fulfilling. NDE due to accident followed by drug induced coma.

Vicki P NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I had a severe cold and my mom was "greasing me up" with Vicks Vapor rub. I began to hear a buzzing sound that grew louder and louder. The next thing I knew, I was going rapidly through a tunnel toward a light. I saw small, bright orbs of light accompanying me and I said to myself, "Angels!" Before I could reach the light I returned to my body and came to. My mom was slapping me and crying and screaming. I was very angry to find myself back in my body. I wanted to go on...it was so peaceful and joyful. NDE due to illness at age 8. Shared 49 years later.

William E's Father's NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 He looked around and saw the tunnel with the light, got up and went to it. Everything was so peaceful and he felt so alive. He was met at the light by his father, grandfather and grandmother and some other old family members but if he told me who, I don't remember. His father said he couldn't come in yet, he still had many important things to do. His father also gave him some messages for his mother and some important legal information she would need. Dad and his father never really got along before and Dad was not happy that he couldn't stay. That was uppermost in his mind and it took a while before he even passed on the information to his mother… cousin Dewey said he was very changed. From a hard living cowboy who was ready to "scrap at the drop of a hat and willing to drop the hat himself" to a calm, friendly person who never had a bad word about anyone and would do anything to help anyone, including his worst enemy, which he claimed he had none. NDE due to typhoid fever. NDE was the father of person sharing account. NDE happened in 1919.

Mildred K NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 That's when the EMT asked the driver what our eta was because He was running out of oxygen. I wanted to cry, but I remembered that my family did not know what had happened to me......and then...it happened! Everything was totally black for a minute or so.....then I found myself in the most vibrantly beautiful rose garden that anyone could ever imagine! The foliage was vibrant, glossy green and the rose blossoms were absolutely enormous and sooo exquisite in both color and fragrance. I was very peaceful in my own mind, not really thinking of anything except the overwhelming peace and glorious beauty of the beautiful, seemingly endless garden of perfection. I was there surrounded by perfection. Then, I heard a noise behind me...a slight rustling, Then....I saw my mother, who has been deceased since 1990. There were others with her....my father...deceased in 1960 and my sister...deceased in 1980....others of my family were standing behind mom, dad, and sis. I asked mom if she loved it here, because I sure did. NDE due to illness.

Nancy L Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 The 2nd experience occurred when I was going through surgery, a routine DNC. The nurse was shaking me and calling my name, but, I did not want to return to my body. I was having the time of my life on the other side. I remember seeing the dark void of space, then seeing the earth, and it was truly brilliant from a distance. Next I was enveloped in light. Don't remember the tunnel, just dancing light and color. I had small children and a husband but I had not been happy. I remember knowing myself completely, sensing all that was going to happen to me, being showed the future in glimpses. I was told by "God" who was very present emotionally, but not in a body, that there were many golden opportunities ahead, and this life is a fantastic gift. I remember feeling the love and fulfillment of being with God and I did not want to leave him or this experience. I argued about leaving...I was told that God would be available to me back on earth if I asked. "I am there too, it is you who closed the door between us". Probable NDE.

Mark G NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Next (without knowing it yet or even thinking I was dead but more in a state of wonder like ,,, what is happening here mixed with seeing what comes next thus not much time to think about all of this yet)... I moved forward in time and was about ??? 20 feet in the air looking down at the ground. I saw people dressed in black at what looked like a cemetery. Mostly I felt their sadness and at that time knew it was my funeral that they were at. It was at that point it dawned on me that I was dead but because I felt fine it was not at all distressing to me to know I was dead. After all, when you are dead there is not much you can do other than see what comes next. The second I realized I was dead and felt their overwhelming sadness my first thoughts were compassion for them "Don't feel sad about me. You will all be dead so0n enough so live your life and enjoy it". I did not want in any way to be the cause of distress to anyone much less people I loved and who loved me. The second I had that thought I felt the presence of someone high above me who heard my first thoughts. NDE due to being attacked by a 1800 pound bull.

Randy P Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I remember getting into the operating room the large overhead light, being on the bed and the doctor talking to me while he put a rubber mask with an attached accordion tube to my face (then I was out). I remember walking with Jesus holding his right hand along a path in a "park" area. Any attempts to describe the beauty of this experience are futile. I remember seeing other "souls" walking in the area. I told Jesus that I wanted to stay but He said that I had to go back, that there were things I had yet to do. I remember at the end of the experience I was watching myself hold his hand from a distance in an area that was darker. I don't remember too much of when I "came to". Probable NDE at time of surgery following accidental valium overdose at age 4.

Ted V NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I was swept into the mouth of a large culvert which went under a busy street. I remember looking down and seeing the buttons on my shirt being ripped open and my eyeglasses being ripped off. When I tried to look up all I could see was dirty water and debris passing by. Then everything went blank as if there was nothing. Then I saw, as in a dream, a copy of the local newspaper's front page. I realized it was being held by the neighbor lady across the street from our house. A hand turned the first page and I was drawn to an article in the lower left corner of the next page. The title of the story was "Young Tucson boy drowns in flooded wash". As I started to read the article everything went brilliant white and I felt a presence and a hand on my left shoulder. I also remember hearing a faint, gentle voice saying "It's not your time...". Instantly I was sitting on the edge of the roadway, with cars passing by, looking down into the rushing water. NDE at age 12 due to being washed into culvert during storm. Remarkable future vision of article regarding his own death in newspaper, and inexplicable physical removal from culvert.

Randy S NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I was pronounced dead to my family when the doctor tried again and i started crying… I remember the very bright purple and white lights. I felt that I was leaving home. I wanted to go but again, I didn't… I went from the light into my body… I was coming from a place where time did not exist. Wow! Apparent NDE at the time of his own birth, due to complications during his own birth.

Stephen F NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I left my body completely. I rose above it to the point where my thorax was just above my head. I do not know where my legs and feet were. I was able to look down through my head and into the inside of my body. I saw nothing there but blood dripping from the inside of my empty rib cage. I could see the inside of the soles of my feet. There was a bright light above and behind me. I went back into my body and the light went away. NDE due to ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Tammie NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I was hit by a car an thrown in front of another, my best friend was also struck in the head. I remember hearing her yelling, and mumbling words. she seemed scared and confused, so I got in the ambulance with her, when I looked at her, her face and head were vibrating really fast , so I held her hand, and she calmed down . I remember getting to the hospital together in the ambulance, we were inseparable best friends I wanting her to be ok. I then woke up on the ground with a Dallas police officer kneeling beside me. I could see everyone from my family and neighborhood there crying looking at me. NDE due to severe auto accident at age 10. Interesting OBE involving being with her friend who was also injured in the accident.

Keith R NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I made it and after resting a few minutes on the raft, decided to try to swim to a second raft about 60 feet further out. About half way there, I began to struggle and went under. The next thing I was aware of was being above my struggling body and watching it. Then somehow I was in the presence of sort of a field of love that was totally wonderful. I felt like I was really "HOME". There were no beings that I can recall, just peace, love, tranquility, at-homeness. Words cannot truly describe it. Next I was seeing my mother weeping over my body. Then I woke up on the raft and people were pushing on me. I was angry that I was no longer in the field of love and tranquility. NDE due to drowning at age 5. Shared 65 year later.

Lacey D NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I remember looking at my speedometer and wandering how much faster I could get my four-wheeler because I was already at 40 mph, and I remember looking back at my friend as I speeded up to make sure I didn't leave him behind, and that was it until I woke up in the road with Paramedic's and people all around me. I was floating up and away, sort of. But not floating like we think of, I was in a warm dark place that felt very awesome and good, it seemed I was headed towards a place where light was emanating. Not necessarily a light at the end of the tunnel...it seemed I was willfully going towards the warmth and the more I felt it, the more I wanted to go. I realized I must be dying but it felt very good and was what I wanted and nothing else mattered. A lady was saying my name very shrilly and really annoying me because as she said my name it seemed to pull me into my body abruptly. I had this warm, good feeling and as I pulled away from my body I could see my self laying in the road with a circle of people around me. NDE due to head injury at age 16.

Josh W NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Apparently after 15-20mins they were loading me into an ambulance. This is where my outer body experience occurred. I recall in some of the most vivid detail that I was floating above the main ski lodge. It seemed like I was in a helicopter about 50-70 feet above the ground just hovering. There was either no noise or total silence. But I remember I could feel the warmth of the sun, but it wasn't the sun it was much brighter and hurt to look directly at. The warmth that it emitted was simply put a "right" feeling, the feeling I had was that everything was calm, relaxed and perfect. I could look and move around the ski resort freely and it felt just as I could float anywhere. I recall going to the top of the mountain and watching different people on the mountain for a few minutes. Then I decided to float back down to the lodge to look around and as I was looking at people around the lunch area I could feel myself being lifted higher and higher up. NDE due to head injury during skiing.

Marie B NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 As he started to slow down I quickly threw my things out the opened door and just as I jumped out he put his foot on the gas pedal and speeded up. I flew out the door and landed very hard in the road hitting my head hard. Instantly I felt myself rising up into the air and gazing down below at my body. It grossed me out as I must have been having a seizure. As I was floating above my body I saw my body contort and my hands were like shaking and wiggling in a spastic way. I immediately felt REVULSION to that body and thought "how grotesque". I felt myself going higher up away from my body and I thought to myself, "oh no, I don't want to die now - my father and my dog need me". NDE due to head injury from jumping out a car window.

Jesse M NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I remember that a great sense of peace came over me. I still don't have the appropriate words to describe it. I didn't go through a tunnel or see a bright light, but I was surrounded by people I knew who had already passed on, and some who I didn't personally know, but I knew who they were. They were telling me how nice it was too see me again, and/or to finally meet me in person. Next thing I know I hear lots of voices yelling. I am being jerked around. A voice is telling me to wake up. I open my eyes and I am surrounded by people and I am on the floor. I am really pissed off that they have brought me back. The first thing I do is ask the nurse why they had to bring me back. I don't think I have ever been that mad before or since. I tried to explain what had happened and the incredible sense of peace I had experienced. The nurse told me I had just keeled over and hit the floor. She called a code and they brought me back. NDE due to post-operative blood loss.

Dewa NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 Allergy shock and death… I took a herb medicine for my sinus problem but did not know I was allergy to it… I was in a dark room or tunnel and was so peaceful but really dark and I heard people calling me from far far away. I did not want to come back for it was a wonderful feeling and I was annoyed and had to come back. NDE due to allergic reaction to herb.

Peggy L NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I was having spinal surgery. I went through a "tunnel" that had a very bright white light at the end. As I neared, the light, I could see many people with their arms stretched out beckoning me to come. They appeared as "grayish" figures, but I could not see their faces. As I got closer, I felt an overwhelming sense of peace beyond any understanding of the word and I wanted to go...then I heard a male voice that permeated my entire being and it said "No! Her children need her." Then I woke up with my friend shaking me. A couple years passed, and I found out that my husband, her step-father, had been molesting her. That is when I finally understood what that meant. They did need me. NDE due to post-operative complication.

Jo H NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 2 hours later my roommate was screaming for help. I was code blue when they found me. I was purple and not breathing. I was floating in the room their was a bright light above. But when I looked down, I could see the doctors and nurses working on my chest . As they tried to insert a tube in my mouth, they had to stop to clear away a large blood clot that had formed which cut off my airway. I felt myself being pulled upwards but a voice behind said, "Joanna it's not your time to go, you still have work to do." As I tried to turn towards the voice to see who was talking to me, I could feel their hands push me down. I kept saying that I like it here, it's so warm and comforting. They said "no, come forward. We are going to guide you down." It was a hard landing, as if I was slammed by a truck. NDE due to post-operative complication at age 16.

BJ's Son's NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 My son's experience: He was wading in mountain river in the summer, hit a pothole & caught in river rapids. Mom & relative saved & pulled son out. Son saw them from high above when under the water & up & down the river. Son did not share story until later. Given CPR. Second Person (son) NDE. Drowning at age 8.

Nicolas G NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I could see myself blacking out. out of the blue, and without warning, I find myself in a dark place. I didn't have time to feel afraid, or annoy other emotion. all I knew was that I was getting closer to a small speck of light far in the distance. I was not walking, I was just getting to the light, as if something was pulling me. No pain, no fear. just then, the dear friend that had died a few months before, appears in front of me, and in a soft manner, kind of made my forward motion stop. as soon as I felt not moving anymore, he just said to me that I needed to go back, that it was not my time. he put his hand on my chest, kind of pushing me back, and I felt a lot of pain at that moment, and woke up with the local paramedics trying to revive me. NDE at age 14 due to accident while playing roughly.

Kristin D NDE English expanded version 12/15/2008 I feel so tacky saying this since it's so stereotypical, but there was always a bright white light, and I'd go to it, and once I got there, and I touched it, everything was beautifully white and scintillating and warm; it smelled sweet and inviting, like cupcakes or warm vanilla sugar, and there were these... the phrase used on the site was 'unearthly beings', and they talked to me. The specifics of what they said was hazy- there was a lot of talking about how special I was, and how people like me didn't come around often, and that I'd understand and remember more as I got older and it became important again, but I have no idea what they were referring to, only that it made me feel like the most important person in the world… NDEs from age 6 months through 5 years old due to seizures.

Haley L NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 I lost consciousness again, the that's when it happened. I suddenly wasn't in the truck anymore. I was standing in the road, looking around, but I wasn't in my body. I glanced at the fireman around my truck...saw the lights from the ambulance, police cars. But all it didn't matter to me for some odd reason. I felt another presence there that scared me, almost like it was calling for me to come toward it even though IT spoke no words. I didn't want to go to it. I started east down the road; the direction that would take me home. But I wasn't in my body or a car...I was just gliding down the road. I can't explain how that felt. I was going very fast and since I traveled this road for years I knew all the landmarks and remember passing them. The presence still kept wanting me to come back...now it was like a light, I could see it reflecting past me onto the road ahead. But I refused, I knew if I stopped and went back I would die, at least that is how I felt. NDE associated with truck accident and blood loss.

Lindsay C NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 clinically at this point I should not remember what happened but I do. I saw it. he waited. he waited until he figured out I didn't just sedate myself. when I stopped breathing he dragged me to the bathroom. he called 911. my dog barked at him. he waited scared. the paramedics arrived they turned me over I was not breathing I did not have a heart beat. they intubated me. they tried to get veins but they blew. they cut off my sweatshirt then my sweater. they gave an adrenaline injection. all of this was so calm and light and peaceful. I felt so light. so safe. so happy. it went dark. then very loud bright and painful. I seized and the trach tube was too large so it jammed into my left lung. NDE due to suicide attempt 37 days prior to sharing her experience.

JS NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 After being sent to the hospital, my body felt peaceful and amazing. I felt my body being separated from my own self. I drifted toward the ceiling, and the monitor line went flat. I saw unearthly beings, but they looked as if they were not trying to hurt me. One minute later, a bright light fell above me. through a pitch-black tunnel, I drifted up to that light. Near one foot before the light "swallowed" me up, I suddenly start to fall back to my body. I call this a strange vision/dream, but it was cool. NDE due to criminal attack at age 9.

MHB NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 From Canada. Original in French, Translated by Amy. It's simple: When I SAW myself, I was above my body. I knew it was not my time to die. So I came back into my body. The only other person I saw was an Asian wearing surgery greens.

Lucie C NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 From Canada. Original in French, Translated by Amy. After a moment (maybe a few seconds, but they seem to me like an eternity) I see my body getting up, I no longer have any control over it, while my consciousness attempts in vain to find a solution. My body begins to run in all directions, exits my room, goes into the living room, circles the table and my arms try to grab onto to something, anything, so that I won't faint or die... Then my body (without the control of my brain) instinctively returns to my room and I collapse, overtaken by an enormous fatigue, so tired from having fought so hard. I am still suffocating, but my consciousness distances itself from this suffering and this fight in order to make an assessment of my life, I see images flash very quickly sort of the way dreams work one scene to another without any logical relationship, but here my brain understands because it doesn't have to know all the details in order to understand the relationships, and only a few images are needed... I relive all the emotions from my childhood at an incredible speed, in about a minute I have completely suffocated. At that point I realize that I am under the control of a superior being, a divine-like presence has my life in its hands, and therefore I am going to die. I know this and am not afraid.

Egyptian Man NDE English expanded version 12/8/2008 From Egypt. During the sex I felt my heart beats increased then I lost conscious. I float into a dark tunnel. I was wearing a white clothes. At the end of the tunnel I saw a shining white light . while I was going in the tunnel I could heard a nice Japanese music, I never heard a Japanese music before but I was very sure that it was a Japanese music, before I get the end of the tunnel my conscious baked to me, my skin was colored deathful. I was swelter and I could not raise on my foot, gradually I became normal again.

NT NDE English expanded version 12/1/2008 I started to see this green light far off into the distance, and I was curious at first, and a little bit relieved that I could finally see something. Then when the light was coming closer, I got scared of the source of light. I had a vague feeling it was evil. I remember thinking of something like the source of light was Cthulu (even though I am not really a cult follower or anything like that). I fell forward and upright, faster and faster to it, and got more terrified of the green light.. then I started to relax and think maybe whatever or whoever it was had something to tell me. By the time I was close enough to make out that the green light was an orb, covered with appendages of some kind, I was anxious to see more of what it looked like. Then suddenly I woke up, and my boyfriend was slapping my face and shaking me. He said I was out for just a few seconds, but I felt I just woke up from a 20 minute dream. NDE due to accident asphyxiation during sex.

Alan F Possible NDE English expanded version 12/1/2008 He then lifted me off the bed and propelled me at great speed such that reality became a sort of tunnel, at the same time the conversion of reality towards a single point was emphasized by the "words," "The Union of All Things." This Union was in fact Jesus, though I saw no typical person, but felt the magnificence of mercy and kindness, and then stopped abruptly at the end point where an unbelievably beautiful but simple gold crown was fixed over my head, and at the same time I paused there for several seconds, I was bathed in jewels that could be described only as spiritual concentrations of pure kindness. In the next instance, I passed into the intense light of Heaven, no sun or moon, no gravity or air, but the brilliance of the place emanates from the things themselves and is composed of the non-material "substance" of God's spirit, intense, beautiful, glorious... I then found myself moving rapidly far above the "ground," and then saw a beautiful ribbon of blue in the distance, which soon became a very broad, glassy surfaced river as I first turned and hovered over it, at which point it "spoke" in the same way, out of the life that was within it, "River of Life." I then traveled down this river bounded on both sides by beautiful sculpted mountains of breathtaking beauty, the beauty so intense that it was difficult to endure, and increasingly so as I went. Sick with mercury poisoning. No clear imminent life-threatening event. Met Jesus who described self as ‘Union of All Things’. Beautiful landscape.

Cam M NDE vs. Drug Experience English expanded version 12/1/2008 From New Zealand First came absolute darkness, then a bright orb of light. The light was more than light; it had a hexagonal tessellation of radiant yellow/orange, but mostly white. There it stood, an oval of light, then a line came out from the orb, it went to the right and up, then began forming a spiral. Then the line stopped just above it. I was told through the vision and some how telepathic I understood, this is life. Life begins and life stops, then begins again. The rebirth. The line began again, with a small gap in the spiral, and again, the spiral began, and stopped. This happened 7 more times with gaps between each one, then the last line faded. I was told this process is never ending until... This is the last message I received, Until you become one with ..... What was it I was told, I feel like I misinterpreted it as God. Nevertheless that's all I had. Experience at age 16 due to ‘huffing’. Very influential on his beliefs.

Auriel P Probable NDE English expanded version 12/1/2008 On 3/19/06 I succumbed to congestive heart failure and C.P.R. began to be administered. And then it happened: It is amazingly hard to describe in earthly words but I will do the best that I can. I felt light as if I were floating and then realized I was standing beside my hospital bed. I could see myself. My eyes were closed and an oxygen tube was in my nose. My arms were at my sides loaded with I.V. equipment. Multiple needles were in both arms and bags of fluids hung above the bed on either side. I was a very orange-ish gray color and I looked like I was sleeping. I saw no one else in the room and turned toward the door. As I walked out into the hallway I felt an unbelievable warmth. The best way I can describe it is if you put a big soft fuzzy blanket in the dryer and then wrapped it around your bare skin. The warmth enveloped me and it smelled like a spring day. Then to my left the hallway grew intensely bright. It blocked everything else out and I turned toward it and began to walk. I saw myself from behind. I was dressed in a hospital gown, short sleeved and hanging to mid calf. Although I had lost most of my hair due to the illness, my hair was now long, thick and hanging almost to my waist. The draw toward the light was irresistible Probable NDE due to severe illness.

Carry G NDE English expanded version 12/1/2008 Immediately, a strong but gentle voice spoke to me from the light, a voice heard not with my ears but with my mind. The being of light said, "Carry, I love you exactly the way you are." The funny thing was that when I heard that voice I recognize it. Somehow, I 'knew' this being. He was like the best friend I always wanted and wished for but did not know it. But, upon hearing his voice, I knew him immediately. When the being of light first said this, I felt like the most loved human being of all time, the most favorite of all human beings in the universe, past, present or future, yet at the same time I knew this being loved everyone equally and just as infinitely as I felt right then. The being delighted in me and was completely focused on me. I was the center of its attention yet somehow I knew everyone was at the 'center' of its attention. When the being said those words to me I knew it saw me as I was, faults and all, not just at that moment, but for all the moments of my life. I felt no shame, no judgment; in fact, it was so liberating to be known so perfectly, to be so wonderfully accepted, yet at the same time, not judged or condemned in the slightest way. Remarkably transcendent prayer experience with many similarities to NDE. This experience led him to become a Catholic priest.

Nick F NDE English expanded version 12/1/2008 In 1976, I drove from Missouri where I taught 7th Grade Boy's Health Science for a night of moderate celebration. I remember nothing else until I woke up. I woke up. Didn't know where I was--nothing new there. Pretty soon, I saw a suit walking around. 'Sir, can you tell me where I am?.' 'Mr. F, you've been in a serious automobile accident… My vision had the impossibly bright light, looking at my body from outside and incredible love. NDE due to auto accident with skull fracture.

Dalry M ADC English expanded version 12/1/2008 From Malaysia Monday, June 30, 2008……I’m asleep in my apartment in Malaysia. Suddenly I'm wide awake and sitting up. They have come to me ...the dead people who had been blown up in the suicide bombing I’d been witness to in Jerusalem. They surge into my consciousness on the crest of a cleansing wave. When they have my attention they speak as one. 'We're so pleased that you've finally got it right ….what you've written about the bombing. Now at last we can move! I ask the question that’s been on my mind for 6 years “What about the ..... bomber?” In one voice they reply “The young woman who fate chose as the instrument? She’s here with us……she’s one of us… she has forgiven and been forgiven. She has taken responsibility for her life….and for her death. Now she is free! That’s why we’ve come. To let the world know…..not just humans but the WHOLE WORLD and EVERYTHING ON IT….. that if WE can forgive THEY CAN FORGIVE! Background: April 12, 2002: At least six people were killed and more than 80 wounded in the blast, which detonated near the crowded Mahane Yehuda market in Jerusalem. Police said the bomber, described as a young woman, loitered near the open-air shopping area before setting off "a very powerful bomb" at a nearby bus stop. A planned meeting between U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has been delayed at least a day… Dramatic witness to carnage after bombing and message from those killed in the bombing. Call for a Freedom Week: “This is what you’re to send out: ON BEHALF OF ALL THOSE OF US WHO MET A VIOLENT END…….WE CALL ON YOU THE LIVING TO INITIATE A FREEDOM WEEK to conclude on the 11.11.2011.”

Alan M NDE. English expanded version 11/28/08 From South Africa There is a beautiful balance to existence, while the dark void is awful, the domain of the light is so peaceful, loving, glorious even blissful that I can not really find adequate words in the English language to describe it. Therefore we all have varying degrees of light in us that will allow us into the glorious light of almighty. We meet an essence of God in the light end of the tunnel, at the end of our earthly life. God can work with the light in us, make us pure and allow us to progress up the various levels of heaven into his eternal blissful presence of everlasting peace and joy! It is a progress of eternal learning. Then we become one with God, but retain our unique. Self awareness or our unique personalities are retained forever. NDE due to coma from illness. Markedly transcendent experience.

Allan T NDE. English expanded version 11/28/08 From the U.K. They thought I'd died and my girlfriend burst into tears waiting hoping the ambulance would arrive. For me I was somewhere else - firstly it was very dark and then I felt as if I was travelled at speeds as if being on a magic carpet, travelling to different places at speeds which don't exist on earth. After a while I went into a tunnel which eventually became brighter and brighter - absolutely unbelievable. When I'd stopped moving/travelling I was greeted by voices/people that I don't remember (and still don't) but where I was felt absolutely peaceful, loving, welcoming and real.....For me I didn't what to return back to my body but after discussions with these people was told very clearly these words by one person -ALLAN, THIS IS NOT YOUR TIME NOW, THERE ARE THINGS THAT YOU MUST STILL DO ON EARTH, YOUR LIFE IS STILL AHEAD OF YOU THEREFORE YOU MUST RETURN!!!!!!! I remember pleading with them that I didn't want to go back but to no avail - the next thing was I opened my eyes and saw my girlfriend who was hysterically crying whilst lying on the restaurant floor..... NDE due to unknown causes with associated unconsciousness.

Frances H NDE. English expanded version 11/28/08 I got caught in a riptide & the waves were taking me down. I was struggling & choking on water. Finally I gave up the struggle & starting thinking that I was going to die. Then all of I sudden, it was like I "popped" up & out of my body and my next thought was "I'm not dead I'm alive, more alive than I had ever felt before!" I did not look back at my body or the beach. I did not travel through a tunnel. My spirit went straight to the Light. There were people in the Light. The Light & all the people in it were full of love & understanding. I was in a place where I wanted to stay. I was told many things which remain in my subconscious. At times I can recall some of the messages I received. When it is appropriate & the time is right I remember. I know I was told that I had to come back. I think I may have agreed to come back. I know I was told I had a purpose for coming back but I don't recall it but I know I will serve my purpose before I go back to the Light. NDE from near drowning at age 7.

Mary 3731 NDE. English expanded version 11/17/08 From Mexico Original in Spanish, translated to English by Simon. I was listening to the nurses talking, when suddenly all my pain was gone, and immediately I heard my mother, who was in the room, calling to me in a very worried voice. As I tried to turn my head to show her I was OK and was not hurting any more, I continued to hear everything with great clarity but with an echo, and straightaway I began to have the feeling of (being in) a tunnel, with the other end being my external ear-passage. At this moment I was as if floating in this tunnel, and I tried to feel my hands and I analyzed the situation, thinking as follows: 1. I am without pain. 2. I am hearing with an echo. 3. I feel I'm in a tunnel. Wow!!!! It looks like I'm dying!!!! I started to notice that I was getting further from the end of the tunnel, very slowly. I was very scared and got extremely nervous, saying to myself: "Wake up, wake up, wake up" and trying to turn round and move so that I would not get any further away. At that point I noticed I was leaving the tunnel at great speed, recovering all of a sudden and completely my vital functions, sight, hearing, touch... NDE from loss of blood due to surgery complications.

Kendra NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 Next thing I know, I'm floating up by the ceiling directly over my body to see it shaking and eight nurses holding me down. I was having a seizure and I heard one of the nurses yell for a staff member to get the doctor and that's all I saw. I was surrounded by a warm white light and I traveled upwards and I felt safe and such love, more then I've ever felt before and I felt myself trying to get to the end faster. At the end of the light I saw a beautiful golden gate with three figures. My mother, My grandfather whom I never new but at that moment I felt like I had known him all my life and a man dressed in white robes and medium brown hair radiating love in waves. For the first time in a long time, I felt accepted and at home and I didn't want to leave. My mother and grandfather told me to go back that I didn't belong here yet. I shook my head. I didn't want to leave the peace I felt there. The white robed man smiled lovingly at me and told me. that he loved me and that I had a choice to stay and finish my remaining years of my life reborn or to go back and finish the rest of my life with my family. I had chosen to go back. NDE due to seizure.

Marlin C NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 As soon as I died I was standing in total darkness and right in front of me was the brightest light you had ever seen in your life but it did not hurt your eyes to look at it. Then this voice came from the light saying to me "step into the light, step into the light." At first I was scared because I had never been in a situation like that before. after the voice repeated the saying again I stepped into the light and when I did it hit me like a ton of bricks!!! The first thing I felt was overwhelming !!!LOVE!!! and the next thing I felt was true peace and contentment, it seemed like I was home! Unfortunately I was only dead for a couple of minutes. I was starting to get over how I felt and started to look around saw like a garden of sorts. The colors were so brilliant and so rich, nothing like here on earth. NDE due to heart attack.

Jen C NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 When the doctors found what I had taken they expressed no real concern saying that I could just sleep it off. I was wheeled into a hallway to wait for an empty room. I laid there staring at the ceiling when I stopped breathing. I then felt myself being pulled up out of my body and out of the hospital into this vast void that was both dark and light. It was silent and still, strange but peaceful. Then I felt myself yanked down and I was back in my body with two nurses looking over me. They didn't ever tell me that I had stopped breathing but I heard them discussing it with the doctor outside my room when I was evaluated. Since that day I have had a heightened awareness of things and during deep meditation I can go back to that void I experienced but stay in my body. NDE due to breathing cessation from medication.

Brian G NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 What I remember is a person asking me (I can't recall seeing a face but I think it was a male) if I wanted to stay or come (with him). I knew exactly what he meant and why he was asking me. I was even looking at myself lying unconscious on either a stretcher or bed. I responded to him that I wanted to stay because my wife and children needed me. He let me know that my decision would be supported (strong sense of compassion), and that though it would be difficult, in the end everything would be ok. Also, there was a very strong sense of peace. NDE due to head injury from car accident. Interesting to note the unique NDE state of consciousness during amnesic period.

Audie M NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 From Australia I had a very high temperature as a result of having Scarlet Fever. I went above my body and could see through the walls. I was in the hospital at the time, and could see the nurses in their canteen. They were saying how sick I was and were eating my pears as I would not need them. I love pears, and my mother could not normally afford them, but had bought them for a special treat. I then went to my home and saw my mother and father getting ready to come to the hospital to see me. I tried to tell them about the pears, but they couldn't see me. I recall feeling very peaceful and quite interested in everything that was going on around my earthly body, but enjoyed floating and being able to go where I wished. I didn't want to go back into my body. NDE due to scarlet fever at age 12. Experience is shared 48 years later.

Tina R NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 From Canada I was standing upright, but not on the ground, it was as if I was floating in a very silent, peaceful space. There was an oval shape of a cloud-like image surrounded in light that became larger and larger in size. I heard a voice saying; "Tina, it is not your time yet, so don't worry or panic. The voice repeated this statement two or three times and then told me to relax, calm my body and concentrate on opening my eyes." I then remember thinking (knowing) that it was my angel speaking and comforting me. I felt an extreme sense of peace and stillness. During the second experience I also remember thinking that it was really unfortunate that my life was over but if I were to go I wouldn't be alone and that I would be with my mom. But the voice answered my thought with words of comfort and peacefully suggested that it was not my time to go. NDE due to complications of infection.

Kristy C NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 I remember being pulled backwards and when I turned I was in an earthy tunnel and a door was before me that opened into a spectacular light. The light was brilliant, but it did not hurt! As I passed into it, it glowed with warmth, love, knowledge, & understanding. Not just my own knowledge but knowledge of everything complete understanding, collective but separate. Everything made sense. Everything was more vivid the colors were brighter & deeper, everything was tranquil and at peace the moment I crossed into the light. I was now standing in a lush rolling meadow, covered with blooms & trees. I felt a presence strong and even more wonderful; I knew my family was with me. The presence had a deep resonating voice that touched the core of your soul. I don't remember what the voice told me, but the peace & calm seemed to magnify. I remember sitting in the meadow, I was cradling something in my arms, asking to cross a small free flowing stream, and not being allowed, I asked to stay. I did not want to go back. NDE due to complications during gallbladder surgery. Interesting in that she had awakening during surgery, then cardiac arrest, then NDE.

Gordy K NDE. English expanded version 11/16/08 I wasn't directly over the gurney and could see the backs of the doctors/nurses on my side of the the gurney. My view of the gurney was mostly blocked by their backs and the overhead light/fixture in the room blocked my view of the people on the other side of me. I was fully aware that was my body on the gurney, however there was a "lack of concern" on my part (not to mention a total lack of the pain and discomfort I was in before I began my experience) and soon lost interest on what was happening to my body. I looked around behind me and saw the cupboards on the wall and read some of the labels on the doors describing the contents behind the doors. They were Dymo labels popular back then. The cupboards and room dissolved away to blackness with a bright light in what would have been the corner in the back of the cupboard. It began to increase in size as though I was moving closer to it, however before the light took over I found myself back in my body. NDE due to unspecified illness.

Ruben G NDE. English expanded version 11/15/08 From Mexico. Original in Spanish, translated by Simon. When I was 9, I went with my parents and some family members to the beach. Everything was just as usual, I went in the sea with my cousin and kept going until the waves were reaching up to my neck. My cousin had stayed behind me. At this point I felt that I was going under, I had fallen down a hollow and in my desperate state I dragged on my cousin and we were both starting to drown. In my instinct for survival I was climbing on his back to breathe, and he was doing the same thing. Exhausted from all my efforts to get out, I gave up and was swallowing water, when suddenly I saw something like a video of my life, every moment was seen. Just then it was a wonderful thing, and after seeing this video I regained consciousness, and my cousin, who had already managed to get out, said to me: "Crawl!" I crouched and crawled, which is how I was able to get out on to the sand. I felt heavy after swallowing a lot of water. Child near-drowning.

MB NDE. English expanded version 11/13/08 From Brazil. Original in Portuguese, translated by Rio. Afterwards, the tunnel turned a light yellow and I saw a female "being" appear in order to accompany me. We finally arrived at a light and then a room appeared--sort of a control room--where there were people behind one way mirrors. I heard someone say that I had arrived at a parallel universe at a HIGHER LEVEL OF CONSCIOUSNESS where it was possible to see other people living normally upon the earth. That was a great revelation. The secret to the universe was being presented to me. The secret is: there is another world where things really are real, where truth, goodness and harmony exist. Life is not limited to the earth experience. Earth life is only a small part of the whole. Those who earn the right are shown eternal life. That was the essence. Childbirth NDE.

Benino NDE. English expanded version 11/10/08 From Italy. Original in Italian, translated by Amy. After an indefinable moment of time I found myself outside of my body, and I saw my body lying on the bed. I rose in the air always keeping my eye on my body. Then everything turned black. I found myself in a tunnel. The sides of the tunnel were brown, grey and black and the colors were all mixed up together. I didn't perceive sound, heat, hunger, feelings, weight, memories, anxiety, emotions. I was all sight. The time I remained in the tunnel is hard to say, but I think several weeks. At the end of the tunnel there was a small light. NDE at age 4. Atypical because he is now atheist (not because of the NDE) and considers the NDE as an hallucination.

John S NDE and Possible NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 When I was 10, my family used too spend our summers up at Lake Phips. It was a wonderful time of my youth. I was wild and I couldn't swim yet. We were at the dock and I told my father I was going to jump in. He told me not to do it. I laughed and did anyway. I sunk like a stone and just stayed sitting at the bottom in all kinds of weeds in pitch dark water. I was there for 5 minutes or so. It was the most at peace I ever felt. Who would think drowning would not be traumatic, at least in my experience. I was out of my body. I guess it was weird. I saw myself through the murky water. It's hard to explain, but my mind was just floating around with no body. I saw a very bright white light that started to expand very rapidly. At that moment, my older brother, Ray, jumped in the water and saved me. It was a miracle because as I said you could not see your hand in front of your face. NDE at age 10 from near drowning, and possible NDE at age 41 from suicide attempt.

Jackie R NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 From Australia I remember walking into a grey zone, another plane that was like a duplicate of this Earth. I wondered were my friend was because, although I couldn't see him I knew he definitely was not on this plane...it was just a knowing from somewhere I can't explain. I felt lost and confused it was hazy and I was walking through bush, trees...just wandering. It was misty grey, foggy almost. I was not afraid but neither joyful, just confused and dreamy. All of a sudden a firm father like voice told me "You must go back, you cannot stay here" it was not an evil voice just firm, as I was the type of person that would likely not listen to a softer tone. This voice I listened to and remember almost instantly becoming present again in my body, but it was only my head, near were some would call the third eye area that I was present, like my soul wanted to just sit there because my injuries were so bad. NDE due to car crash.

Jessica P NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 Before I came to those several days later it was almost as if the wreck would keep re-playing in my mind . I could see my self sitting in the truck , but from above . And very close as if I was sitting right on top of the roof with the top pealed back . It was as if that one little area where I was had been covered with a bright white light that was clouds or fog around me , but I could still see myself clearly… Finally months later I received all of the police reports an hospital records . I still at that point was un aware fully of what happened to me . All I know was I had to be airlifted to the closest hospital or I would have died . Once I got the police report of what happened I got chills through my body as I read and saw photos of the same meridian from my dream . I call it a dream :-] , for I really don’t know what it was. NDE due to car accident.

Shirley R NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 Standing at the light, that is not really a light like we know on earth, I felt I finally was home after a long long journey. Every question I ever wanted to know about the universe and life was answered at that moment and not a word was spoken, but I could feel the information enter my soul. There were silhouettes of women and men and children floating up at an angle through a fog like light. All were looking up at an angle and I was watching them and waiting for what seemed like my turn, I was filled with happiness and safety and love, everything we the people look for and seek out here on earth. I still cry to go home into the light, I do not want to be here on earth anymore, but know that I have no choice not even suicide. NDE due to post-operative complication.

Abraham B Probable NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 AT ONE POINT WITHIN SECONDS SOMETHING INSIDE ME FROM MY BELLY SEPARATED AND DEPARTED AT A GREAT SPEED AND WENT TO A BLACK TUNNEL. AT THE END, THE PART WAS ENGULF IN AN EXTREMELY BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT. IT WAS THE MOST PEACEFUL QUIET AND HAPPY EXPERIENCE OF MY LIFE. This is one of the few Jewish experiences that we have received.

Cathleen C NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 I knew that He had the answers to all questions so I began to ask Him things I had wondered about the most. Why is there evil? His reply, because there is good. I asked how anyone, being what they are, be permitted to exist in this home of God. He made me understand that He knew everything about me, that I was who I was because He Himself had designed me to be exactly, precisely who I was and that whatever I was I was still His creation, His child and He loved me so very much. Remarkable NDE due to criminal attack involving strychnine poisoning. Initial part of NDE in hellish realm. Exceptional spiritual wisdom.

Mark T NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 From the U.K. Suddenly everything went white. There wasn't a tunnel or music or anything like that, just a blanket of white light. The white light was if you were to look directly at the sun. I felt as if I was gently laid down on the seabed. Then I felt surrounded in an invisible cloak of safety and serenity. It was the most peaceful feeling I had ever, and have to this day, felt. I knew I was safe. Then I felt a horrible jolt as someone grabbed my arm. All of a sudden, the water felt extremely cold and I started to feel the same original panic as I felt the cloak slipping off me. A woman pulled me out of the water and I started breathing again. I was really annoyed at the woman, as if she had just woken me from a peaceful sleep - only ten times worse. NDE at age 16 due to drowning.

Cathy B NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 From Canada I felt my body shutting down and then I had a flash of my entire life including pre-birth. Then I was up and looking down at my back and I wasn't scared I just kept thinking that any minute he'd go away and then I'll start to breathe again. I was ok with my body dying. Then I remember looking up and getting pulled/sucked toward a great white light. When I got closer to the light I saw the outline of adults. I was only there for a moment before I was sucked back and then I was breathing again. NDE due to criminal attack at age 7.

Richard H NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 Overall, it was an incredible, transformational, inspirational, spiritual experience resulting in a quickening of my awareness/consciousness, a loss of fear, a loss of the fear of death, a strong sense of greater meaning, remarkable insight into the human condition and the dire importance of relationships, an unshakable conviction that there is nothing to fear concerning death or the the afterlife, a strengthening of my intuitive abilities and a profound sense of inner peace, all of which led to a greater appreciation of life, and a sincere desire to live my life to the fullest, and the conviction I should do something constructive with my second chance. And more! NDE due to heart attack. Markedly life-changing.

Ashley G Fear Death Experience. English expanded version 11/1/08 We were coming down a hill and at the bottom of the hill was a semi sharp turn to the right. Mikey was driving about 65mph and I told him to slow down but he didn't we reached the bottom of the hill and right before the curve I remember there was an old run down barn to the right. Then when he went to go around the curve he lost control of the car. I all of a sudden felt like I was standing out side the car on the side of the road in the right in front of the barn. The car seemed to be 100ft away. I could see the red car, I could see us in the car, and I could see the car spinning and sliding across the wet pavement, and I could see the other cars and their headlights coming from the other way and I kept thinking that they were going to hit the car. It all seemed like it was in slow motion, but I was in normal motion. As soon and the car stopped I was back in the car just sitting there wondering what had just happened. The car never rolled or hit anything. It just spun around a couple of times. “Fear-death” experience due to near crash in car.

George L NDE. English expanded version 11/1/08 My soul or spirit left my body at that moment and I went somewhere I don't recall. Then I was floating with my hand on my mom and dad's shoulders as they were walking down the hallway in the hospital. My spirit went to the operating room where I was looking down on my body with all the doctors and tubes and stuff sticking out of me. Only my face was peeking through the ceiling tiles at the foot end of the table but I was in the ceiling like my feet and legs wanted to float upwards. Then I was instantly at the head of my surgery table. I was still looking through the ceiling tiles when I saw this white shape at the foot of the surgery table. It was shaped a lot like me; size, slender, height . . . all that. Anyways it slowly laid into my body and worked its way from my feet until it finally disappeared into my face and that's when I came back to life. NDE due to being shot.

Nadera S NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 From Iraq. Original in Arabic, Non Western NDE I saw four people, three men and a woman, one of the men was in white uniform and I knew the woman according to her clothes. They put me on litter ( ambulance litter) and they pushed it running through a passage. For hours, then we arrived to the end of the way. I saw a light. I told them this is the first time to get a breathing failure and you didn't take me younger brother in spite that he is asthma case since 14 years, so please let me back. NDE by Professor.

Jay MD Patient NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 After 28 shocks (I think), I got her back. She was technically without a cardiac rhythm of her own for 1.5 HOURS… That night, I, went to the ICU and asked this elderly lady if she "remembered anything." "Yes," she said, "I was in the corner of the room--floating--and saw you working on me. You shocked me and I was dead. I saw a massively white bright light and there were two angels there...telling me it wasn't my time and to go back. But I didn't want to." Remarkable account from a surgeon who resuscitated a patient who had coded due to heart electrical abnormality while undergoing surgery. The patient told a classic NDE, and then denied having had the experience later. To the best of our recollection, this is the first account of this type shared with NDERF.

Frank A NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 I WAS IN CLASS 2 AT THE TIME. AS CHILDREN PLAYING IN OUR CLASSROOM WE HAD FORMED A CIRCLE AND DOING A CIRCULAR MOVEMENT. AS WE MOVED IN THE CIRCULAR ORBIT EITHER MY HAND OR THE HAND HOLDING MINE LET LOOSE AND MY HEAD HIT THE WALL OF THE CLASSROOM AND THE NEXT THING I KNEW THE EXPERIENCE BELOW WAS WITNESSED: "I SAW MYSELF FLOATING OVER MY BODY IN SOME WHINING NOISE. AS I HANGED OVER MY BODY I COULD SEE ALL MY CLASSMATES CLATTERING AND CHATTING IN A NOISY MANNER. AT THE CLASSROOM ENTRANCE CAME IN AND WENT OUT SCHOOL CHILDREN AND OTHER PEOPLE. AS THE PEOPLE CAME IN CLOSER TO MY BODY, THE FLOATING IMAGE WENT BACK AND FORTH AND I COULD CLEARLY SEE MY BODY IN THE POSTURE THAT LAID ON THE GROUND WITH MY HANDS HOLDING MY HEAD. THE NOISE I HEARD IN THE CLASSROOM WERE CLEAR UNDERSTANDABLE HUMAN VOICES. NDE due to head trauma at age 8. NDE happened in Ghana in West Africa, making it a relatively rare non-Western NDE.

Jason B NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 After the car came to a complete stop, and I realized what had happened I exited the vehicle stood there for a few seconds. I then realized that I was bleeding and hurt and something triggered me to stray away from the scene. I walked about 20 yards up a side street away from the busy intersection, and simply fell to the ground. I laid there briefly and within what seemed like seconds an off duty police officer came to my aid and kept trying to talk to me, telling me not to close my eyes. soon after this is when I had the out of body experience as if I was standing over myself in a crowd of onlookers. Watching the paramedics arrive they began CPR. I then saw things from the ground again after what seemed like minutes. NDE due to auto accident at age 17.

Granit N NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 Foreign, Original in Dutch, translated to English by Annelies. I was in a rotating tunnel (a kind of cloud) and inside the tunnel there were billions of small lights. I looked around, I was surprised and had no idea what was happening. I heard beautiful music that resembled classical music. I remember (like it happened yesterday) the feeling I had: peaceful, quiet, without worries. At the end of the tunnel was a large light which looked like the sun but this light I could look into. I remember saying (telepathic words not by word of mouth): wow it is beautiful here. Where am I? Suddenly with the speed of lightning I was back in my body. NDE from an 8 year old playing with firecrackers.

Michel vd B NDE. English expanded version 10/19/08 From the Netherlands, Original in Dutch, translated to English by Annelies. And then the lights go out. At the same time I see my friends(5 kilometers further on) getting in their car, they are saying: Michel is late maybe he's not coming. And I say right away: hey, I'm lying over here but they don't hear or see me. Suddenly I see them coming from the opposite direction my head is at. I wave to them and they stop and then they say: shit that's Michel's car. And I say: yes, don't you see I've been in an accident. I look down and I see myself lying very still with my eyes closed. I look up again and I see my mother in tears, talking to a policeman at the front door. And then all of a sudden I realize I'm dead. NDE from car accident.

Yulia Possible NDE. English expanded version 10/18/08 From Russia, Original in Russian, translated to English by Sergey I flew through the funnel along a spiral at a great speed, very loud noise in my ears, like a very strong wind. On the walls of the funnel, not sure how attached, there were some unusual objects; at that moment I knew what they were, but forgot later, I have a vague feeling that they were toys. While flying, I heard voices talking to me. They were a bit with an echo, with unusual timbre, I think now that they were muffled as by cotton. Then I clearly understood what they were telling me and knew that they belong to three apostles, but when I returned, I forgot what they were saying. Being in the "funnel", I felt happy, free, joyfully-amazed like a child. I had a feeling, that in my earthly life I saw everything through a very dusty glass. Even though there is a question as to whether she was unconscious during the experience, this is definitely NDE-Like.

Agnes O NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 From Canada Me and my brother were at a deck on a river and he pushed me into the water, as a joke, then ran away thinking I will be chasing him. I was fighting to get out of the water but because fully clothed and with shoes on I couldn't get out. I was going down and as much as I was trying to swim up I couldn't. I have been swimming since I was a baby but I couldn't get to the surface. My clothes and my shoes were so heavy and pulling me down. It was so scary.. I was fighting for a breath, my lungs and my throat hurt and burnt. It felt like my chest is going to explode and then it all stopped. It got quiet and peaceful. I saw my hands floating in front of my face. I remember looking at them with no emotion. I could see the sun rays cutting through the water and shining on the rocks and thought how beautiful they were. I saw the weeds floating around me... I saw parts of my life in front of my eyes But the most important was the PEACE that I felt. I felt light and peaceful like nothing else mattered. NDE due to drowning at age 15.

Hazeliene M NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 From Singapore When I felt that I was totally blackout, so I fell down and knocked my head on the floor. That's the thing I remember before I was fully conscious. After that, I suddenly I was in the very dark tunnel going up up up in a way up there (above). Then after that, it was very dark place and I know that place was a tunnel. After passing through from that very dark tunnel, it has changed to very bright light. I had seen a very bright light, I thought it was sun, but it was not. I don't' have an idea where's that light came from. Someone spoken to me for a while, I heard and that voice came from that light. You know what I felt when I saw that light? When I saw that bright light, I felt that someone loves me very much (but no idea who it was) I was very overwhelmed with that bright light. And while I was there, I felt the love and that love I never felt before. That light welcoming me very warmly and loves me very much. My words to the light before I woke up was this: I wanted to stay here, but I love my 2 kids. NDE at time of unconsciousness due to apparent illness.

Nina S Probable NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 From the UK During my operation I found myself standing on the apex of a bend in a tunnel. The tunnel was metallic and coming from one end out of the dark I was watching what looked like meat hooks hanging from a moving conveyor moving slowly towards me. There were gnarled, twisted, burnt looking bodies hanging fr0m the hooks which gradually moved towards me and the bend. As I looked to the other end of the tunnel I could see an incredibly white light - so bright that it seemed to reflect from the metallic tunnel. Standing at one side of the tunnel in the light was a figure - dressed in white and so bright with light that you couldn't make out any features. My feelings were that this being was a man with long robes. The being was lifting the bodies from the conveyor and taking them into his arms. The bodies changed completely as he lifted them into his arms. They because beautiful, really really beautiful with wondrous, happy smiles on their faces. Probable NDE during surgery for a skull fracture.

Marilyn M Probable NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 I woke up in the car, my sister was moaning, I told her to be quiet and that everything would be ok. I blacked out and came to in the ambulance, felt like I was lying on a pile of bricks. I begged my dad who was in the ambulance with me to tell me where my mom was. I blacked out again. Woke up again in the emergency room hearing blood curdling screaming. I blacked out again and woke up going into surgery hearing a nurse say she doesn't have much hair so we don't have to shave her. My out of body experience was sometime during surgery I think. I was hovering over myself and saw 5 other people around me in white coats. They were just standing there. The light was behind me and I did not look into it. I felt very peaceful and secure in where I was. The next thing I remember was that I came to in a hospital room with my dad looking at me and he still would not say where my mother was. Probable NDE during urgent surgery following car accident.

Marney S' Daughter's NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 I am writing for my daughter who experienced a sudden cardiac arrest at the age of 2 years old. She was resuscitated in a hospital setting using a defibrillator after being gone for at least four minutes. A few months after being released from the hospital, she told our then 12 year-old daughter, "I'm all better now." Our older daughter responded with, "You are? How do you know that?" Our 2 year-old said, "God told me." A few weeks later, we were sitting around the campfire as a family roasting marshmallows when our daughter told us, "God came to see me when I was at the hospital. He carried me up to the sky when the doctors were putting something on me. He told me I was all better now and took me back to the hospital." NDE at age 2 shared by parents when she is age 5. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Mary R NDE. English expanded version 10/12/08 Then there was a very small moment of total darkness and then I found myself walking upward through an old stone and earth tunnel that had a bright white light at the end. Before I got to the light, the stones and earth turned into the heavens with all of the stars. I instantly knew all of their names and purpose and they seemed as though they were living beings with a reason for being created. One in particular I was told was my birth star. Everything was within a heart beat yet seemed as if time had stopped. You knew things all at once yet separate as well. There was an angel walking on my right side with me the entire way and I was told he was my guardian angel. I saw my entire life as though I was watching a movie. There was an invisible border you could not see yet you understood not to cross it or you could not leave. Horses and dogs were playing together and when they stopped, they seemed to stare a hole through me and then went back to playing. I was told they were checking to see if I was the person they were waiting for that they had loved while on earth. NDE due to severe head injury from criminal attack.

Anitta J NDE. English expanded version 10/4/08 From Finland. I had a terrible pain in my head and was suddenly in a very dark tunnel going fast forward. I saw an enormous light at the end of the tunnel and I was going to it. My previous life went through like a film. Then I felt that somebody, whose face I did dot see, took me on the arms and I felt very peaceful. There was no fear or pain, just happy and restful feeling. Then I saw my father, just like he was when he lived and he said to me: come here, here is good to be. I wanted to run to him, but I could not, because there was a border between us. I cannot describe the border it was like a wall which I could see through. Then I heard a dark voice that seemed to be everywhere, asking: who? meaning my identity and then the words: not yet. I was given number thirty-four. Then I was obliged to turn back, which I did not want, because I had such a good feeling there. Again I was in the tunnel coming back very fast and at the same time the pain in my body came back. I had cried: no, no, when I was coming back to consciousness. NDE at age 14 due to heart attack secondary to Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (an abnormality of electrical conduction of the heart).

Thaddeus K NDE. English expanded version 10/4/08 Lying on my back. Awake. Suddenly I am looking down at myself from the ceiling. My position is reversed, that is my head is opposite to my feet on the bed. I see myself very clearly. I have normal vision. I am presented with making a decision. No voice. Just "knowledge" that I have a choice. The choice is stay or go. There is absolutely no value to either choice which surprises me. The lack of value is striking to me. A sense of absolute calm. I choose "stay." Immediately I am back in my body. NDE due to gram negative bacteria septic shock. NDEr is a retired physician who is sharing this 52 years later.

Armandina G NDE. English expanded version 10/4/08 For those few moments of her trying to convince them I need to go to the emergency room is when I guess blacked out/ lost consciousness. All of a sudden I was somehow normal and not drunk I don't know if I was sitting, standing or laying there as I was, but I clearly realized someone or I don't really know if it was a person, ghost or not cause as I was look forward at a slight right angle I heard a slow gentle command voice asking " Do you want to come (as if to sway his hand/palm open from forward to back) or do you want to stay (as if now motioning his hand from the position in back to where it started with hand and palm open) Now I certainly heard it but I did not see it, although the motion I felt seemed to be clearly inviting. I paused for a moment (thinking to myself I am being given a choice to live or die WOW! NDE due to alcohol overdose.

Shirley R NDE. English expanded version 10/4/08 Lying in a bed had pancreatitis didn't know if I was going to live or die. Seen a black tunnel it was swirling and my daughter and my mother were at the end of this tunnel. They were calling me but my godmother who is my grandmother told me to go back. Soon I started to get well again. I have seen the similar thing in my bedroom and it is frightening. I am afraid to go through that tunnel… NDE while in intensive care due to pancreatitis.

John S Probable NDE. English expanded version 10/4/08 Next thing I remember, I was looking down at myself sitting on the bench of the emergency room. The girl who brought me over was seated next to me. A doctor was kneeling in front of the "me" on the bench, moving my mouth around. He said the jaw was broken clear through. I later found out the left side was also broken in pieces. As I looked down, I was aware of an endless continuum behind me, but I did not turn around. Indescribable, all-encompassing Love surrounded everything. It was perfect peace and well-being beyond imagination. There was someone or something that communicated telepathically with me. It's hard to explain the feeling of intimacy, care and connection I felt with it. We were almost one. But what was behind me was so much greater then me. Looking down at "me" on the bench, "we" felt such compassion for the poor guy. He didn't know that he was surrounded by Love. Probable NDE after jaw fracture.

Belen NDE. English expanded version 10/3/08 From Spain - Original in Spanish, translated to English by Amy. When I was 3 years old I was involved in a car accident, as I was getting out of my father's car I fell onto the asphalt. I became unconscious, and they declared me clinically dead. I remember that in that moment I found myself alone in a kind of forest with really tall trees and a lot of light, probably sunlight, I was walking quietly through the greenery and I felt so much at peace, I don't know if it was a dream or just a state of unconsciousness. The peace I felt was indescribable, I remember it as though it happened yesterday. NDE that occurred when she was 3 years old.

Pia H NDE. English expanded version 10/1/08 From Belgium - Original in Dutch, translated to English by Garry. Suddenly I'm without a body and am overcome by a feeling of wellbeing; I know everything and yet nothing. This is it: death=life; LOVE! It is impossible for me to describe the feeling. I felt myself so connected to everything, it was so heavenly and easy! I didn't have to breath; I didn't have to anything, only BE! This wonderful feeling was so overwhelming I was almost glad to be dead; it will be heavenly at life's end. NDE from allergic reaction to anesthesia.

Stella NDE. English expanded version 10/1/08 From Italy - Original in Italian, translated to English by Amy. The tunnel was semi transparent and I saw points of light like distant stars becoming rays of irregular lights, like the headlights on a car that is speeding down a curved road. My speed kept growing until the light could no longer reach me and I saw that the tunnel was one giant curve, but a curve that was barely discernible, yet I could feel it. Then I was home. The light surrounded me and I was in eternity, every question I asked had an instant clear response, even if I didn't understand every answer. I was surrounded by the gentle song of many voices and I couldn't understand the song. I walked barefoot in an undulating field on soft grass and not far oak tree stood out, it was more imposing than anything I had ever seen, a brilliant green like life (I could write a whole book about that tree alone but I will stop here). 4 years old. Exceptional NDE. OBE- saw nurse lose ring and told her where to find it. Remarkably transcendent. Profound insights on life's purpose and free will.

Newlin D NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 As I was being electrocuted I left my body and floated above the scene. I was surrounded in by a warm diffuse light but could see everything clearly. I could see my body shaking and convulsing with the electrical current, my eyes were open, my mouth was open but I couldn't speak. I seemed to know that I was going to die unless something changed. I don't remember being scared or frightened at all - very matter of factly. While floating I went over to where my dad was working at the other end of the garage. He had his back to my body and wasn't aware of what was going on. I went over to him and then he looked up from his work on the floor, turned to see my body being electrocuted. He picked up a hammer and threw it across the room and knocked the extension cord/drop light out of my hand. After that the light went out, the scene collapsed and the next thing I was aware of was being awakened mother in our family room. NDE due to electrocution at age 11.

Fanny B Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 I felt my soul (I don't know what word I can use for this) just rising up from my body... horizontally or from the belly... something like that. Then, it's just like most people's feeling, so peaceful, so grateful and my body or my soul has no weight at all. I was in the middle of no where, I could see all around me in the same time...360? The whole room was lighten by a kind of light bright but not hurting, there was no corner, no shadow, the light seems to be peace, happiness and so on. Probable NDE three days after surgery.

Flannigan D Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 As I floated up there, I was watching my body lying on the table with the Dr and nurse leaning over me, and I could see the clothes I was wearing, my short-sleeve blue/red/and white shirt which my grandma made for me and two like them for my brothers. I also had on some blue jeans and my black shoes. My shirt was partially covered with a white towel. As I watched from above, I became aware of a smell (like lilacs) which reminded me of my Grandma (my mother's mom) who had died in a car accident just two years before that. Probable NDE at age 8 during surgery. Shared 53 years later. He is a minister.

Newie NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 I found myself in a sort of courtyard. There were no flowers, but the grass, bushes, and tree leaves were an extraordinarily vibrant green. Over the horizon was white and gold light. I knew I was in the presence of something sacred--not God as commonly described--and I experienced true awe for the first time. I was not afraid. There was an invisible barrier separating the courtyard from the light and the landscape beyond, and I was scrambling around, trying to find a way through. I heard a female voice say, "It's not your time yet." I replied, "I've had a stroke and my left side is paralyzed. What better time could there be?" But they wouldn't let me in. I'm not sure who "they" are, but I was devastated when I realized I was being dragged back to my ruined body. NDE due to stroke.

Russell P NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 I felt my breathing slowing , then stopping. Then I was engulfed in light and there was a place -a completely black-place I couldn't see through or break through. The light was warm and inviting and I felt like I was a kid in my grandmother's arms -the only safe place in the world. I felt myself losing everything then I heard a woman's voice scream ''NO it is not yet his time ''and I awoke and was in an emergency room with the taste of charcoal in my mouth and mad as hell. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Don R NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 Apparently, the split second that my head hit the windshield and I started yelling, I had an out of body experience and felt myself hovering above my body about 10 feet up. I remember a white light but I think that was from the black jack. But I do remember that God spoke to me and said to come with Him and I said "No, I want to marry and have a son and daughter. (I put that wish in the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem 9 year later and have been happily married for 21 years with a daughter and son). I also remember Him telling me to walk to Port Arthur, Texas (my hometown) and don't look back. That's it. I had a mild concussion, burst some blood vessels in my arm but recovered. NDE due to head injury.

Leonard S NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 I only remember that when we were at the Fort Benning Georgia Hospital Emergency room, that I was floating above my body. My body was on a stretcher or gurney and my mom was next to me crying. I remember seeing someone come up and feel my arm for a pulse (I assume this) and turning to my mother and shaking his head. The next thing I saw a another individual being talked to by the first one and that individual checking on me. He said something to my mother and then I was wheeled into a treatment area… She told me when I was better that a medical assistant had checked my pulse and told her I was dead. NDE due to being hit on back of head with baseball bat at age 12.

John P Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 Once I got to the hospital I was placed in a metal tub with ice and some type of solution. my clothes were burnt to my skin and I could still fill the electricity going through my body. the pain was so great that I ask God to come and get me and relieve me from the pain. It was terrible. Then I began to rise up out of my body as a spirit. I could see over the top of my body and see all the doctors in the room looking at my lifeless body. I also saw my mother come into the hospital room screaming and crying. She was a nurse at the hospital at that time. Then something or someone~ I think it was God~ in a voice said come into the light and my spirit began to lift higher into a place of white lights with bluish color surrounding. It was very cool and it took away the pain. I don't know how long I was gone and the next time I remember being in my body. I was at home wrapped in bandages over my whole bad from head to toe. Probable NDE due to electrocution at age 8. A second experience is described which is more consistent with dream vs narcotic experience (presumably he was on narcotic pain medications at the time).

Mary G Experience English expanded version 9/29/08 It was the day before my 37th birthday. Noelle was coming into the world. I had had a bad experience with my son's birth eight years before, so this time, I decided to go completely natural. It was a little frightening, because the doctor had not arrived. The nurse and my husband had to deliver her. I was lying on my left side and the pushing urge took over. Suddenly I was behind myself, looking at the event taking place. No more fear--no pain. Just peace. I didn't even seem surprised that I was there. Then I saw an amazing pure white light coming from inside my lower back. The light was so bright that it would have hurt my eyes, but it didn't. It was really indescribable but felt like love on the highest level I have ever experienced. I remember wondering what it was. Immediately I could see it was shaped like a baby--my baby! The entire experience lasted only a short time, and I was back in my body just as she was born. I believe I was very privileged to witness my daughter's soul entering her body. OBE at time of childbirth. Witnessed baby’s soul entering its body.

John T Fear Death Experience. English expanded version 9/29/08 I was caught in the cross fire 13 shots fired. Hit 3 times, hand (right) thru & thru left forearm, & left arm part of bicep muscle. I saw 1 bullet pass my eyes & hit concrete right in front of me. During this episode My spirit left my body & was looking back at my body shaking uncontrollably. I became very calm but had thoughts of how I was going to explain to Walter's wife & 9 children I tried my best. I thought he was dead. Also how to tell my parents? In the calm was a white light of calmness. Thank you for letting me tell my story, as for today I do not fear death. OBE associated with Fear-Death Experience due to being shot, but not in critical organs.

Luz H NDE. English expanded version 9/29/08 From Puerto Rico - Original in Spanish, translated to English by Simon A. I entered into shock, and that is when everything began. I felt great peace, and felt no fear in separating from my body. I felt myself floating and that I was rising from the gurney. I could hear people praying all around me but could not react, could not open my eyes or move, etc. NDE from post-childbirth complications.

1696/895. Kane D NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 From the UK. When I realized I was dead which took several minutes a great warmth of love engulfed me and I felt arms wrap around me even though I had no physical form, colors where electric, smells fantastic I slipped in and out of my body multiple times during the three days. I had life reviews but these were not how I have read since but purely self observed and self analyzed as if I was my own parent or own teacher it is difficult to put into words, I was also aware of the over powering secret to life in its truly simple form and felt and believed it that nothing else is real but the feeling. the experience of death has been the most real and physical experience of my life and the world here felt cold and heavy and unreal for sometime afterwards. NDE due to brain hemorrhage from right temporal aneurysm. Integration experience - Also shared in 2006.

Frances Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 From Ireland I was trying to come out of the anesthesia and a heard a nurse say "she isn't awake yet" " let her sleep a little longer"...it was then it happened. I felt so very sleepy, but unable to say I was awake. The next thing I felt separate from my body and woke up in black but only for a second, not even a second. I then was slowly going toward light and as I progressed toward it I felt almost layers of myself falling away....I became lighter and lighter and happier...just so happy. I was in a tunnel of very white light and I saw a group of people who loved me. I don't know who they were, but they were familiar to me. No words were said but I felt the pure joy of being there...such incredible relief. There were many women young and old. Probable NDE following surgery.

Paul J NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 The next conscious memory I had was of my body shutting down. I can recall the sense of doom I felt as I could physically feel my energy leaving my body; I was so scared and I don't know how to explain this but I mustered the strength to come to long enough to ask my wife to get me a priest and give me my last rights. I guess she did so, but at this point I fell back into a coma and at some point I remember standing on the edge of a cliff and in front of me I saw a mist, a floating fog, but for some reason I knew it was bottomless. All I could feel, hear, and see was sadness. It was at that moment of realization that I knew my right had was raised. I turned my head and looked at my hand and I looked up to see that I was holding the left hand of Jesus. I knew in my heart it was Him. He didn't look at me, he just turned me away from the edge of what I can only call the abyss, and led me away and towards darkness. The next thing I remember is coming to and asking my wife to get me a priest. NDE due to brain hemorrhage from aneurysm.

Derek C NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 After an unknown amount of time to me I was awake again lying on my bed but things were very different. I felt No pain, very much at peace, and not sure if I just woke up or was awakened but on the left side of my bed was my Oma and Opa (grand mother and grand father in German) both of which had died at different times in the past. On the right side of my bed were my Great Grand Mother and Great Grand Father. I have never met my Great Grand Father; he died long before I was even born. My Great Grand Mother was the love of my life as a child, if I was bad during the week my punishment was that I would not be allowed to go to her home and stay with her for the weekend. I have more fond memories of her and being with her than anyone on my life. NDE during unconsciousness following apparent heart attack.

Gary T NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 I knew I was bleeding to death and told my wife goodbye and kissed her. At that point I was in a stage of total darkness and I felt wonderful, no pain, no fear. Then I realized where I was at and I saw a bright light. My Doctor was in the light and he told me I was not going to die. I went with him into the light and things started moving faster and faster. I came too a few hours latter in intensive care. It took almost a full day to understand everything. I had to learn to walk all over, like if you had a stroke. I no longer fear death, I need to understand more. I am see a head Doctor by I don't know if it is helping me understand. NDE due to blood loss.

Curtis K NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 As I was losing hold on my life, I felt sorry for myself as I began to let go. I felt was dying poorly. A kind of darkness, came over me and I experienced a grayish dark void of infinite nothingness. I had no fear at this point. I had no concept of time or relationships to time or of moments passing. It was a very unusual feeling to say the least, not what we normally experience in the everyday reality of our lives. I felt myself becoming more and more aware, self-aware. I had feelings of expanding awareness, becoming everything known experiencing everything yet to be known. As this was happening, everything I had been taught, everything I believed in, everything I ever learned or thought throughout the course of my lifetime, fell away from me as if they never held meaning in the first place. This felt ok to me, I had no fear. NDE due to apparent heart attack.

Roxanne H NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 THIS IS WHERE AND WHEN THINGS CHANGED...I KNOW I WAS SOMEWHERE AND VERY LITTLE LIGHT...THEN IN FRONT OF ME I SAW BLUE CLOUDS BLUER THAN ANY BLUE YOU CAN IMAGINE WITH BRILLIANT WHITE CLOUDS FLUFFY WHITE WHITER THAN YOU HAVE EVER SEEN. WHILE LOOKING AT THIS I SAW GOLD I AM NOT SURE IF IT WAS A TABLE A ROAD OR A FENCE OR ALTER...AS I GOT CLOSER I SAW A FIGURE AT FIRST I DID NOT KNOW WHO IT WAS SO I GOT EVEN CLOSER...I SAW JESUS STANDING BEFORE ME I COULDN'T BELIEVE THIS WAS TRUE UNTIL HE MOVED HE WAS BRILLIANT LOVE RADIATED FROM HIM AND HE KNEW WHO I WAS AND EVERYTHING ABOUT ME HE WAS PERFECT (FOR LACK OF A BETTER WORD) HIS SKIN HIS HAIR HIS EYES THEY WERE LIKE NOTHING I HAVE SEEN BEFORE OR SINCE. HIS ROBE WAS WHITE AND BLUE ALL ON PIECE BUT YET BLENDED INTO ONE GARMENT...HIS GAZE WAS OF ACCEPTANCE, RECOGNITION, AND LOVE. NDE due to heart attack.

Justin M NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 I then almost instantly found myself in complete darkness. It was a strange darkness, which I mean it was dark but I had no trouble seeing the area around me. Suddenly I felt this presence, in the area with me. I then said in a normal tone "What is this? Were Am I?". My reply back was "you have suffered a injury, and that is why your here." I then tried moving. I struggled to move from side to side, but couldn't. I literally felt like I was being held still. The being was so strong that I couldn't get free, (I don't mean that in a scared way.) I then said "Why are you holding me still?" The being replied back "I have to." I replied back "Am I gonna be alright?" In a lovingly fatherly voice the being replied, "you'll be alright." NDE due to head injury in early childhood.

M.E. NDE. English expanded version 9/27/08 The tunnel was very vivid and immediate and real though. I was in a tunnel of light and I experienced the tunnel of light - and I know it was not just the ordinary experience of being pushed through a tunnel because I was watching it all from above. I saw myself stretched there, I saw the scrubs and caps or whatever those hospital folks wear on their heads, I saw their shoulders, backs, I did not see their faces. just mine. I saw the floor, I saw it all from above and I could see the bright bright sky all along the side of me and above me and then surrounding me too. NDE at age 6 from head injury in accident.

Skipped

Abdul A NDE. English expanded version 9/19/08 From the U.K. When I opened my eyes, I saw my self standing on my knees and arms. I was in a place that had no beginning and no ending. It was a white place, white everywhere. I was very tired and couldn’t stand up. When I looked in front of me, I saw three tall men standing next to each other. The two on the sides were the same height, but the one in the middle was taller. Their faces were blurry. I couldn’t see them clearly. The middle man (the tallest one), pointed at me. I felt that everything was shaking and I felt like something was pulling me. Then I saw myself back in the class room. The nurse was holding me and he said that they had nearly lost me. NDE associated with faint at age 15.

Joseph G NDE. English expanded version 9/19/08 I went to the emergency room of the hospital because of a bad reaction to a tetanus shot. While in the emergency room, I was given 2 shots of penicillin. After the second shot, I fell to the floor. All of a sudden, I found myself floating at the ceiling watching the turmoil going on in the room. My body was on the gurney jumping and shaking. The room was full people working on me; pounding on me. The nurse who gave me the shots was sitting on the floor in the corner, hysterical. I saw them with the electric paddles trying to start my heart, with no luck. I thought I heard someone say that I was dead. Suddenly, this doctor rushed into the room, shoving everyone out of the way. He was carrying this long syringe with a long needle and plunged it into my chest. That was the last thing I remember. NDE due to allergic reaction that happened 50 years ago.

Hosin F Possible NDE. English expanded version 9/1/08 From Iraq. Original in Arabic. Two weeks after I had the same thing, I felt something swooped into my face, I entered to dark black tunnel, then I reached to a shining colored phosphoric golden world , I looked at my self I couldn’t see my body so I knew that I left it behind, it was on the bed and my family was crying there. The speed was much more light speed, but it was fun, I tried to turn my head around me but I could not my sight was straight only. I exit that world to third world, the new world seen like our world in sunrise time, with some clouds, with wafts I said to my self here I will not suffer anymore, this is the end of sickness and fatigue. Possible Non-Western NDE from Iraq. Can't tell if he actually died, but at the very least, he had an OBE/STE.

Pam C Probable NDE. English expanded version 8/31/08 As told to NDERF's Elaine S. She was placed under anesthesia and found herself going through a tunnel. She heard tinkling chimes, saw flashing lights and there was a bright light at the end of the tunnel. Someone was waiting at the end of the tunnel dressed in a long robe with a hood who took her to another area. There were 5 o 6 others dressed similarly in that area--they looked like monks. She couldn't see their faces, but she knew who they were although now she doesn't know who they were even though she felt at the time that they were loved ones. It was like being home again. Everyone hugged and embraced. There was an overwhelming feeling of love. It was like a reunion. Wow! I get chills reading this one! It is so transformative.

José MO NDE. English expanded version 8/31/08 From Spain. Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Nancy A. The moment came when … though I was not breathing, I felt I was breathing… I stopped feeling my heart beats, I had neither pain nor weariness, no, everything was very, very pleasant, I felt stronger and more alive than ever before, I felt light as if I could fly at any moment. However, I couldn’t move a single muscle. I didn’t care about it, I was absorbed in what I was feeling at that moment … I wasn’t hearing or seeing anything, I felt no pain or weariness, I didn’t notice the passing of time. Unexpectedly, I lost awareness of my body and I saw myself in some other place, to be more precise, I saw myself at the school I attended (I loved school) and then I saw myself at my best girlfriend’s house but I couldn’t see my body, I just saw a landscape. I was feeling even better with all that, those images made me really happy… and there was also wind at the back, a light wind. NDE from a childhood prank.

Todd H NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 I was in the hospital. Doctors were performing a procedure to see what was going on in my lungs. When they started the procedure, I went into respiratory arrest. Time slowed. With each beat of my heart, there was pain pulsating throughout my body. The pain was extreme. I cried out to God to stop the pain. I was scared I was going to die; die alone. My mind flooded with thoughts. The past and my missed future. All of a sudden, the pain disappeared. I was told all my thoughts were in the past; that none of that mattered anymore. It was so peaceful. I felt the presence of others. They were close but so far away. I did not recognize them, but I knew they were familiar. I was told, "You will suffer in silence". I survived. All of this happened during the Anthrax attacks of 2001. My illness was undiagnosed. I was in a coma for two weeks. I, in no way whatsoever, am afraid to die at this point. I know we continue to exist after death. It's a very different place. However, I am afraid of how I will die. The pain is extreme until it goes away and death is close. NDE from Pulmonary medical procedure. Peace, felt presence of others. PTSD after this.

Fred S NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 Finally an assistant heard a faint whisper come out of me, "not breathing." He still did not understand and the anesthesiologist was not paying attention. I then left my body and saw it go limp. I was at the point of not returning. The tech who tried to catch my whisper caught what was happening. The anesthesia mask was ripped off the I.V. was taken out and I was intubated. I came back in a panic, clawing and gabbing at everything. I was surprised how close I came and I immediately recalled being out of body watching myself go limp. NDE due to anesthesia complication. NDE was 10 days ago.

Robert N NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 At age 7, while swimming (I had not really learned yet) in a motel swimming pool, I found I could not get my head above water. I swam underwater to the edge and tried to pull myself up. The ceramic tile border was slippery, and I could not get a grip on it. I was drowning. At this time I started to see myself struggling from a perspective from below and behind me. This visualizing continued until, at the last moment, I was finally able to gain a grip, and was able to pull my head above the water. NDE at age 7 from near drowning. Sharing NDE 52 years later.

Paul T NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 From India. Non-Western NDE. I jumped from the jeep and ran to cross the road to reach home first. what I remember is some this coming besides me (later I knew it was a van). what I really remember is just keeping 1 or 2 steps in road later something happened I was closing my eyes. I felt like am a hydrogen balloon flowing to air. I was going upward. when I felt it I tried to open my eyes and my head was laying downwards. when I slowly opened my eyes I saw my body laying on the roadside. I got really frightened. I felt like am paralyzed and I was going upwards but I felt some one is carrying me very lovingly (an unconditional love) I tried to move my body and turned my eyes upwards to see who is carrying me. what I saw was mother Mary. she wore a blue and pink dress (the is a statue that paints in this color) with a crown. And the position is like she is carrying with her both hands and I felt very comfortable in her hands. NDE at age 5 due to being struck by van.

Austin T Probable NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 At that point, I was in a different place with two or three other beings. They were much taller than me, I felt very small and insignificant beside them. They were very compassionate to me, despite how inconsequential I was compared to them. I was shown my life, and they talked about it. They pointed out an event in my childhood when I was 4 or 5 years old, and one of them said to the others, "That's why he had to do great things," and the others agreed. I didn't know what they were talking about, and I wanted to know what they meant, but suddenly I was a million miles away from them. I was back in my body, in my room, in my bed. I slept a long time, but I remembered. Suicide attempt produced this experience.

Cynthia NDE. English expanded version 8/30/08 The last thing I actually saw was the emergency string which I think I pulled. What happened next is something that makes me wonder "what really happened". I remember being surrounded by a bright white light. It was all around me, then I Started to hear the voices of nurses in panic, yelling asking for help. It was chaos. The strange thing about their voices is that I heard them as if they were far away. I could hear them saying to one another "She is not breathing, She's turning blue". as I heard this I could remember thinking to myself" Im not breathing? I don't need to breath". As I was in this bright light I could literally feel wind blowing through my body. And I didn't have to breath because the air flowing through me was enough and I knew this. All I could feel was peace and happiness. NDE due to blood loss after delivery.

Glauco S NDE. English expanded version 8/17/08 Anyway, I was missing my life and I want to go back. I had flash backs about playing soccer with my friend, being hugged by my mom, the sun the rain, things that made me happy. I also knew my angel did this for a reason because any sane person would not want to go back. I also realize for the first how beautiful and fragile Earth really is. I could sense the earth breathing like it was alive. I could see a light around everything that was alive, trees, flowers, grass, animals, volcanoes and humans. I sense that humans was in control over other living things, I have the word (aura) stamped in mind ever since. Don't no why but the angel told me not tell anyone and that time will reveled itself. I said "What"? NDE due to near drowning (under water about 22 minutes) in Brazil at age 8. 3 brothers saw the same angel. Remarkably transcendent experience.

Janie G NDE. English expanded version 8/17/08 Went to dentist office for simple filling. I was injected several times with Novocain because I wouldn't get numb. the dentist just kept giving me more and more. I began to shake uncontrollably. my heart was racing, and beating very irregularly. I was sort of going in and out. I remember the dentist saying she was going to call 911. then there was this voice, this presence, I can't explain it-a bright light and a voice off to the side of me. she said, "Do you remember the way you breathed when you were going to have the children?" I knew she meant the Lamaze slow chest breathing I used when I gave birth to my children. She asked me to use this breathing technique. At this time I really panicked as I began to think of my children and how little they were and how much they needed me. she said, "you breath the way I asked you to, and I will go and watch over them for you, she meant my children. she told me that thinking of them would only hurt my heart rate, make it beat faster, to concentrate on breathing and she would watch them for me. NDE due to overdose of epinephrine at dentist office.

Sharon B NDE. English expanded version 8/17/08 I had a life review which just seemed to happen all on it's own. This lasted but a blink of an eye and the lesson in the reviewing process is that We judge ourselves, God does not judge us... then I heard His voice which seemed to be infused into me yet I heard it as well. The messages were very clear...What you put into this universe ,you will get back. Be very careful what words, thoughts and actions you put out into the universe because they most definitely will come back to you in some form at some point in your life. This He told me to bring back and share. NDE due to accident with direct head injury. Three NDEs all similar, one described in detail.

Damien R NDE. English expanded version 8/17/08 Then was thrust into a long tunnel of sort, couldn't see it but more like could sense it. I was traveling at an unreal speed faster than I would've ever imagined. The feeling of weightlessness was present. I began to feel fear and panic, then I broke through to what I believe was the other side. A sudden calm took over me and a new found happiness. I know now that as long as we are present in our shells, or bodies, we are unable to feel this extent of peace, love, tranquility and comfort. The tunnel gave way to an immense light that couldn't be seen but more like felt. Everything was blinding bright but not in the same sense as staring into the sun or a welding arc. It was more of a second sight phenomena. I started communicating with something vast and all powerful, all knowing and true to the purest definition. It wasn't as if we were talking like person to person but more like telepathically, for a lack of better words. I fully understand now how words are unable to bring to light or understanding an experience that happens on a spiritual plane. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Ekaterina A NDE. English expanded version 8/14/08 From Bulgaria. Suddenly, as though I was this man, I was watching the world through his eyes. He had a small woman and eight kids, and the last kid was newborn. He was a poor peasant, who hardly supported his family, but among all peasants he was considered to be in the middle class. His native language was German, but he was also speaking French well. He was living outside of the city and cultivated the earth. I understood all of this when I started watching through his eyes. He went round the hill and in front of him a vast plain revealed itself, in the middle of which was an ugly, gray, depressive city, from our point of view small. The historical time was the Middle Ages. He reached the city and entered. The picture that I saw from his eyes was so startling, that it can't be seen even in the most bravely staged and realistic Hollywood movie about the Middle Ages. Exceptional NDE. Associated with operation for pheochromocytoma (rare tumor) at age 16.

Judy H NDE. English expanded version 8/14/08 The next day Sept. 16 I was taken into the operating room to have a tubal ligation I was put to sleep and all of a sudden I could see myself lying on the operating room table As I was floating up I went through a set of double doors and was in a beautiful green field. It had a creek running through the middle of the field on the other side of the creek was a beautiful field of flowers. There was also the most perfect mountain in the field. I was standing far away from the creek but it seemed like I took one step and was across the creek. It seemed like I knew every answer to every question that could ever be ask. It was as though I had complete knowledge, which is an important thing to me, gaining as much knowledge as you possibly can in this world. I wasn't alone because at the top of this mountain was a most beautiful city and there were people there. Some I knew and others I could not make out their faces. As I lifted my foot to start up the mountain and go to the city, a voice spoke behind me and said, No you can't climb that hill yet it is not your time. NDE due to cardiac arrest during operation for tubal ligation. Interesting concept of a “boundary” in NDEs here.

Van R NDE. English expanded version 8/14/08 At this point I didn't feel as if I had died. It felt more like I was slipping away from life slowly and I couldn't stop it. I remember my roommate was sitting next to me and I had turned my head to look at her. everything went quiet and felt like I was in a dream like state. Everything slowed down. at that moment I felt as if I was out of my body and the déjà vu feeling was so intense. I remember I felt really disappointed and knew I had died. I was telling myself that. I felt I was still alive, just not in my body and even shocked that I was still functioning. I had the feeling that sleep was no longer an option and my mind was going to wonder for eternity. I then remember sound came back suddenly and I was back in my body. NDE due to allergic reaction. Happened less than two weeks Go.

Story C NDE. English expanded version 8/14/08 The last thing I remember was the doctor yelling come on hurry we are going to lose them, I did not know it was me and my 9 lb son he was talking about. I was rushing through beautiful colors all at once my paternal grandmother stood in front of me, she was beautiful, dressed in a beautiful white gown, behind her there was a veil, like looking through lace curtain with with other beings milling about, she told me I could not stay, I wanted to stay I felt so wonderful, she told me I had to go back and care for my babies (I had a 2 yr. old also) The next thing I remember is waking up in ICU with a sweet oriental nurse sitting with me, telling me I had to stay awake and see my beautiful baby boy. NDE due to childbirth 52 years ago.

Diane B ADC. English expanded version 8/14/08 The experience I wish to share is one in which my father passed over and I witnessed him leaving. I saw a little whirlwind leave the top of his head as it fell into my arm. Then I saw my mother extend her hand and I heard her laugh. I do remember thinking , "Science is trying to measure what I saw." ADC witnessing a whirlwind come from her father’s head at his moment of death.

Alfonso SD Possible NDE. English expanded version 8/8/08 From Columbia, Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Simon. Suddenly everything became still, as if someone had turned off a switch. The feeling was awful. In front of me there was a light ( I'm not certain whether it was a light or a horizontal line, perfectly straight and infinitely extended). I cannot remember the exact color or form, but it was everything that exists. Literally everything and at the same time nothing, nothing besides this had existence, there was no universe, no world, no time, no space, nothing... and nobody! It was the most crushing feeling of absolute Nothingness, you could not turn it around to look from a different angle, it was impossible, the light was everything, my body did not exist. It is as if someone said, OK wise guy, you've got this far, here is what death is about... nothing... store closed... the end!.. In the midst of this, I felt disappointed. Possible NDE from near-drowning incident.

Ruben E NDE. English expanded version 8/6/08 From Columbia, Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Simon. At first I was floating, surrounded by a very white and brilliant light, and as I descended I noticed that the white light was not just light: there were very, very white clouds which I was passing through. After coming through the clouds I found myself descending towards a very beautiful landscape, with green meadows, rivers, butterflies and birds. I was moving towards a hill with a tree on top. The sensation I felt I cannot express in words, but it was so wonderfully tranquillizing that the desire is there to return and feel it over again. Before I reached the tree, I felt the landscape darkening, and I felt as if I was being dragged backwards at great speed, taking me away from this place; then I found myself in the hospital again, surrounded by people. NDE from cardiac arrest.

Amelia NDE. English expanded version 7/30/08 From Brazil, Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Simon. I had a perforated ulcer, with a lot of bleeding. My husband took me to hospital. Until then I was relatively conscious. I was taken to the operating theatre, where I only remember hearing: "She has no pulse, no pressure, we're losing her." I didn't think this could be about me, as I was ascending a tunnel with a wonderful golden light at the end. I felt extraordinarily happy, a feeling of unforgettable well-being. I don't know when I came to again. What intrigues me is that after a month or two, already completely restored to health, I sometimes saw a young man (40 , more or less) in my house, looking at me. I never saw his face, and he neither said anything nor made any movement. This happened on and off for about 5 months. Beginnings of a NDE from blood loss.

Maria N Possible NDE. English expanded version 7/30/08 From Puerto Rico, Original in Spanish translated to English by Carmen. All of a sudden, I felt something coming out of my body, something from myself was coming off me. I didn’t want this to carry on before I could see my daughter. Something was pushing me to leave the chair where I was sitting. My mind was telling me that I didn’t want to go before I could see my daughter and tell her about the beautiful experience I was going through. I closed my eyes and saw a virgin; something wanted to take me but when I insisted on wanting to see my daughter, it left me alone and I felt my body back on the chair again. Possible NDE from not being able to breath.

Antonieta SCC Possible NDE. English expanded version 7/29/08 From Peru, Original in Spanish translated to English by Carmen. During those moments while I was unconscious I began to see a very intense tunnel full of a light too bright and my body went towards this tunnel. I felt an intense incomparable happiness. I arrived at the end of the tunnel and, surprised, I saw a beautiful garden full of flowers. Then I saw a prince or very bright angel dressed in bright white clothes who was indicating that I should be back to the tunnel, to which I longer wanted to return, and he, upset, pointed to me that I should go back. I went back to the tunnel of bright light reluctantly – because I wanted to stay, and this is when I woke up and saw my husband sitting by my side shaking me. Possible NDE from anesthesia reaction.

Christopher J NDE. English expanded version 7/28/08 A guy's voice asked me if I'm okay, and I slowly lowered my arms and looked up. I was standing in the middle of a meadow, rolling hills and beautiful flowers dotted the area. I could see cottages in the distance. A song more beautiful than any I have ever heard was playing in the background, with no visible source. The very air emanated love and warmth, a love that goes deep into the soul and can withstand anything. The guy called me by name and I turned around. The man was barely out of his twenties, blond, longish hair, blue eyes, dressed in the whitest clothing I have ever seen. (Later, I learned that angels were clothed in light, which explains his clothes.) He towered over me; I only rose to his navel area. He told me that I wasn't supposed to be here, looking down on me with love and concern. I asked him why, and he said I had a LONG time to go before I could enter heaven to stay. I wondered how long silently, and he answered me as if he heard what I was thinking. "You are supposed to be 83 years old before you get here." NDE due to being smothered during childhood “game”. NDE at age 8. He is age 20 at time he shared this.

Kristi Possible NDE. English expanded version 7/28/08 I was born two months premature and weighed 3 lbs. 5 oz. I was placed in an incubator and there was an accident-- a fire that began while a nurse was on her coffee break or they were changing shifts. I survived the fire and being so small. I do believe that I was visited by someone or some being from the other side when this took place because of the way certain "talents" and preferences have stayed with me in this life from the very beginning. I grew up in a home where religion was viewed as a crutch for the weak. Both of my parents claimed to be Agnostics but my mom did allow me to investigate religious organizations when I was in my pre-teens. However, ever since I can remember, I prayed to God every night. I did not pick this up from any relative or friend. I remember having the surest certainty that there was a God, that he personally watched over me and that he & the others with Him were incredibly beautiful. Premature birth and fire in incubator at the time. Has experienced aftereffects typical of NDErs since that time.

Brian NDE. English expanded version 7/28/08 At age 24, I was late for work, so I hopped on my motorcycle and a car turned left in front of me, I hit the car at over 60 mph, and flew over it. I was wearing a helmet, but hit my head really hard. I guess that when I was unconscious in the ambulance, I was dreaming that my best friend at the time Scott and I were just hanging out like usual, and he jokingly asked me if I liked God or the Devil, I said, God of course...., and immediately, I found myself in the back of an ambulance, being resuscitated. Each event has changed the way I look at life, I value each day, and though I don't attend church, I feel a very close connection to God, and thank him for giving me a wonderful life. NDE due to motorcycle accident. Relatively rare experience of encountering someone apparently alive at the time.

Attila P Possible NDE. English expanded version 7/28/08 Original in German, Translated to English by Amy. He passed me by and went smiling towards my doorway. The sentinels drew back and the massive doors opened. I saw an intense warm light and heard pleasant music which was in absolute harmony. It was a place of palpable tangible love. A place of welcome, of feeling absolutely at home. I understood what it meant to be home. No question, just absolute acceptance. Belonging. I moved so that I could quickly get to the light. But before I made to the door one of the sentinels grabbed me and held me fast. The doors closed. Next I found myself in some kind of courtroom. Before me sat an unbelievably stern all-powerful yet very kind judge. Absolutely incorruptible. Duty and person were one and the person didn't exist without the duty. I sat on a bench and near me was a friend or defender. Great love emanated from him. Was it Jesus? Possible NDE at age 4 from the Croupe.

Sandra NDE. English expanded version 7/28/08 Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Amy. I was playing basketball when all of a sudden everything turned dark and started spinning. For a moment I thought that it was just my blood pressure dropping. I closed my eyes and fell onto my head but didn't feel any pain. From afar I heard my friend's voices, they were yelling "Sandra, Sandra" and then everything faded away. That's when I had the strange sensation of floating. I could see my friends gathered around me but I could no longer hear them. I could also see my body, I was white and not moving. It was very strange. An intense light appeared and almost blinded me. In that light I saw my paternal grandfather. He died when I was only 3 years old. I felt good at the same time that I was worried. I can't describe it. Finally I felt a terrible pain in my head and and in my chest and I awakened in a hospital room with my mother beside me crying. This was a very strange experience which I wouldn't want to experience again but in a certain way it helped me to no longer fear death. At first I thought everything had been a bad dream but then found out that it was real enough and that the doctors had revived me with their paddles and CPR massage. Short NDE while playing basketball.

Jackie G Probable NDE. English expanded version 7/27/08 From Mexico, Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Simon. I began to see some huts, it was a charming wood, then suddenly I was hovering, and I saw that people were eating. They were all in white with jackets or tunics, I don't recall exactly, and I saw Mama in the distance, chatting, and someone else approaching her. Meanwhile I was being asked by others what I was doing there, and I said to them, did you invite me to the party or not? They said no, you aren't invited. Then my mother came up and scolded me, saying you are not supposed to be here, it is not your time, you must go. I said to her "No, I'm happy here," and at that I felt myself tugged from behind, everything became dark, and suddenly all became confused, I don't know if it was a vision, but I was still there and began to see a sort of puzzle, lighting up little by little. I did not know where I was, as I had been at the party, then little by little everything became clear, all this taking about a minute. I was in shock, not recognizing anything, but then I realised that I was in my room and I asked myself "How did I get here?" Very sick from Hepatitis A and grieving for mother.

Olivia G NDE. English expanded version 7/27/08 From Mexico, Original in Spanish, Translated to English by Amy. I fought to stay alive, I spoke with God and told him: Here I am Lord, You have me here, whatever you want let that be your Will, except in that moment I saw a dark void, I knew it was Him, and at the depth of the Void a sacred heart. He spoke to me and told me it wasn’t going to be easy. I saw my children and the pain of the youngest one who would miss me terribly, I knew it wasn’t easy but I kept fighting to live. I was out of my body, my whole hospital room was filled with religious statues and beyond my window I saw that there was a a statue of Christ that was part of the hospital façade. Even though there were many nurses I fixated only on one, and two male nurses who were there told me that the nurse I saw was not there, these male nurses came to check on me and fix the tubes that had not been placed properly in my body. I also saw another nurse outside my room who was praying for me. My decision and commitment to God to continue fighting for my life helped me to endure everything. I was terrified at the medical error happening, hearing was much more acute, I couldn’t speak, only listen. NDE from accident and saw nurses fixing medical mistake.

Bridget F NDE. English expanded version 7/21/08 At this point a being made of light came to my side. I was not raised religious nor was I baptized. I could be wrong but, it felt like what people call Christ. It was not the Christ we see in paintings or pictures, it was not the Christ we hear about from evangelicals, it was not America's Christ nor any other representation of Christ I have come across. This was a being so pure and so benevolent and so non-judgmental I could barely comprehend the level of compassion this being possessed in the small yet brilliant light that it was. Not until it touched me and said "I'll take that, it's for me" and took the beam from me and touched me, was I even able to fathom this amazing love. Exceptional NDE due to auto accident.

Linda G NDE. English expanded version 7/20/08 From Australia I came to understand that we all choose to come to earth to fulfill a plan of some sort or even learn about a particular interest. We choose our bodies and parents and life plan. May I also add that some people come here for the most simplest of reasons to learn how to play tennis for example or simply for the cake and food, as silly as this sounds our life plans aren't so high and lofty as one might think. I DIDN'T MEET ANY SAVE THE WORLDERS OR ANYONE WISHING TO BE A PRESIDENT. MOST HAD SIMPLE WISHES. I was also told we could exist on different planes for another lives but our life here on earth is a life purely to experience physical pleasure or pain but to have a physical experience because all other planes we don't need a body as a vessel. I also learnt that this life here is just a drop of water in the bucket of lives in which we all experience, many here on Earth & many in other realms of existence. All to progress and grow in some way. Exceptional NDE due to accidental drug overdose.

John W NDE. English expanded version 7/20/08 I was alone in a large space---- bright white light and warm and comfortable. Was very tired and ready to sleep. Sleep was a great temptation. I saw myself there wrapped in bedclothes but not necessarily in a bed. I somehow understood that to go to sleep was to NOT wake up and the decision was mine. My next recollection is of being in my bed in an ER room of the hospital and seeing the door open. NDE due to accident.

Christopher E OBE. English expanded version 7/20/08 7/20/08 From Nigeria Well the more warning! the more the other force I can't explain is pulling me toward other venture, at all this stage I clearly understand that I am out of my body! cause I feel same way as I feel now writing all this down, but the peculiar thing is that while standing in my village I can still see my body sleeping in my friend's room far away in Germany. While trying to put all this things together, my eyes opened more to my immediate environment ! I started seeing all the dead elderly people of my kindred, they where all happy in there various compound some cooking while some are doing other domestic works, from the spot I was standing I could see every compound and all the past dead elderly people of our kindred! From individual living in Nigeria. Probable dream/OBE.

CJ C Possible NDE. English expanded version 7/13/08 In the pit I realized that God is one and he stands as one. We are all an extension of God and if we don't stand as one we will fall. That's how the universe is connected. If we hurt those around us we are hurting ourselves and we will fall. Because who will be our support when we need it? So if we love others by first loving ourselves we are close to God and others. But if we hurt, hold bitterness, are unforgiving, hatred or any other thing against ANYONE we are going to destroy ourselves. Because we will keep the bitterness inside and it will make us physically sick and we'll eventually spiral down to the pit. If a person stand on food, drugs, money, sex, adultery or anything other than God or people, we are leaning on paper and will fall and eventually spiral down into the pit. Then I said to myself by God's spurring, "He (God) loves me even me." When this knowledge came, I knew I didn't have to be there any longer. I put myself there because I didn't believe God loved me so I didn't love myself. Now that I loved myself, I felt worthy of going higher. Very sick due to drug use, but no specific imminent life-threatening event clear. Very transcendent experience.

Cabell M NDE. English expanded version 7/13/08 The experience was not of mind but what I believe to be of soul and spirit, there was a huge light and and my soul was at a learning point, our lives spent here in body and soul being present in them is to learn as much as we can. Also when we are older and pass from this life, I was shown that a new life to go on learning doesn't stop, for example like a car we make newer and better models, just like our souls and as time goes on and our soul leaves our bodies at time of death we go on to and dimension in time and learn even more with out recollections of what was previous or in the future, but our souls remain always and everlasting. I hope this makes some sense to you cause it did to me. NDE associated with an operation.

Tracy T NDE. English expanded version 7/13/08 Alone in this beautiful place I was content. He asked if I wanted to return to the living? As I answered the question, "NO, I want to stay here." With gentle peace and as I answered, He said before I choose. He wanted to show me something. The future of my life if I return. From the moment I return to its final moments at my death bed. It was all seen!! Every thing! Meanings, events, pain, sorrow. Not just that, but why we are here! What I'm to do My purpose and how important my return was to all of man kind and the effects of now, future and after life. How everything we do or don't do effects every thing, every one. How it all ripples through time space. Gripping NDE due to Ryes Syndrome at age 15.

Alison D NDE. English expanded version 7/13/08 Euphoria, clear, perfect happiness, contentment. I know not how to call it. It was the most perfect emotion imaginable. Neither too great nor too small, not manic, not placid, but perfect, the ideal psychological human state, and I would give anything to regain it. The emotional state was the highest point of the experience, and the key of the memory. I lie awake at night going over the emotional state, trying to analyze it, to figure out how to regain it, to find a way to recreate it in real life in a natural way. The best way I can explain it is this: It was a purely experiential happiness without judgment, without time sense (neither past nor future), and perfectly mindful (even though I was in pain, there was no "positive or negative" awareness of the pain), and with a clear, glorious, euphoric happiness that was not clouded by any negativity or agitation. No negative emotions at all, in fact. None at all. NDE due to anaphylactic reaction from MRI contrast. Contributor is Ph.D. Psychologist. Given this background, remarkable discussion of NDE experience.

Jean K Other. English expanded version 7/13/08 We always went to my Mother's and help prepare holiday dinner. I was standing against the door going into the kitchen, just talking and laughing with everyone in the kitchen, family and I saw myself on the other side of the room sitting on the steps, peeling potatoes and talking and laughing, but I could not hear what I was saying and all I could do was point at myself. Of course everyone laughed and said yea right, but I could not explain it, didn't know why, how or anything only how strange I felt at the time. Everyone laughed it off and I though no more about it until about hour later, I was actually sitting on the steps peeling potatoes, and it was like I felt a shock, jolt and I realized that where I was, what I had seen an hour earlier. It just happened. Interesting example of autoscopy and déjà vu.

Cara NDE. English expanded version 7/6/08 After a craniotomy, the body clinically hovered between life and death for two days. My spirit left the body at that time. I looked down at the body, and although it wasn't a pretty sight, I was not concerned. I perceived it to be a vehicle, which carried me through the earth school. I was in a place of love, kindness, compassion, contentment, acceptance, joy...a place of "knowing". I perceived myself and other beings as masses of energy...all connected and yet separate. There were no body forms, or communication as I know it in human form. There was simply a sense of all knowing. Each and every spirit being was supportive of each other, and I "knew" them, although they didn't have the same forms as when I knew them on the earth school. There were no limitations such as space or time in the spirit world. I was aware of the big picture regarding the past, present and future. I was aware that the earth school experience was one part of my evolution. Exceptional NDE due to head injury.

Dave R NDE. English expanded version 7/6/08 In mid November 1974 I was 12 years old and was introduced to cigarette smoking. I remember watching my father draw in his cigarettes as I grew. One of my friends handed me a cigarette and I lit it and took a draw and inhaled just like my father did. It was painful and I remember bending over trying to find air. I was gasping. The next thing I recall I was in a state much like a dream where it was dark but there was something in front of me that at that moment I identified with but can't now, sorry! All I can say about it is it was bright and lit and the only colors I can put to it is white and yellow. I then felt myself moving forward very, very fast. What is difficult to explain is at the very same time, I was able to see some of my surroundings and was sitting upright on the ground in the school yard where I had fallen and I was looking at the toes of my shoes. Little by little I began to become more conscious of the state I was in and was looking up at the object before me getting closer and acknowledging more and more it's power and greatness. The Feelings I felt about it's greatness where not just mine but I had a sense that that feeling was shared from many others as I did not feel alone although I didn't see anyone. NDE at age 12 associated with introduction to smoking cigarettes. This account is yet another reason not to smoke.

Antonio C NDE. English expanded version 7/6/08 From Brazil During this time I remember talking to myself that I was dead. For sure I was dead once I was meeting Jesus and St. Peter. I was surprised being in a dark place as I thought heaven was blue with angels playing music. I was not scared anytime actually I felt myself playing around with myself saying how bad the accident was that I end up being there. It was very weird mainly because I do not believe on these things and I am not religious. NDE due to motorcycle accident. From Brazil. Accident occurred slightly more than one month ago.

Jackie M NDE. English expanded version 7/6/08 Although I could see myself and Mary neither one of us were moving. Another thing is that the distance it was of me looking down on myself was more than it could've been. It was as if I were looking down from the distance of being on a second floor, but we lived in a trailer at the time with maybe 10 foot ceilings. While this was happening I felt that God was with me. I distinctly remember feeling that I had the choice to either go with Him or to stay behind. I remember the term "letting go"...that I could "let go" if I wanted and that it would be as easy as releasing a ball from your hand. Also, I just KNEW that either decision would be alright with Him. I felt like He was leaving this decision entirely in my hands. I wasn't afraid at all. As a matter of fact I had a feeling of absolute peace. NDE due to miscarriage at age 15.

Thea NDE. English expanded version 7/1/08 From Romania, Original in Romanian Translated to English by Mariana. I wanted to show off that I was a good swimmer but the river undercurrent took me away to this drop off near the foot of a bridge. They told me later that a professional swimmer who happened to be there on vacation at his grandparents’ got me out of the water but that I did not look scared at all. What I did not tell them was that I had panicked and struggled for a several minutes before I decided to completely give up. When I did give up, the water disappeared and all around me there was this gentle light that did not hurt my eyes, and I experienced a sense of total peace and calm. I remember thinking that if that was death it was fine with me. I would like to tell you that I had an unhappy childhood, with an alcoholic father and a mother who did not have much time for me, so being there in that place was a wonderful thing for me, indescribable. NDEs at age 4 (scarlet fever 104 temp) and 8.

Janet J NDE. English expanded version 6/30/08 I saw the nurses and the doctor working on my body, I was up in the ceiling looking down. I thought it was cool I could float like that, I also saw my brother and his girlfriend in the waiting room looking worried. I wondered how did they get there so fast. I tried to touch them and to say I was alright, but I could not. After it was all over, and my brother and his girlfriend came to the room to see me. I reach out and touch them, I told them I had tried to touch them before. I was feeling no pain, I was aware that I was on a hospital bed, but it was by a huge river and there were a group of people on the other side, waving to me to come on the other side where they were. But I could not I had two little girls I had to take care of. So I told them that i could not come. NDE due to complication of surgery.

B's Shared NELE. English expanded version 6/30/08 He consciously watched me until 4 breaths before his last exhale. By that breath I was TOTALLY aware of how perfectly calm everything was. As I sat there holding his hand I witnessed a unexpected sight. I SAW not with my natural sight, however I SAW what looked like a whitish, wispy, cloudy human form lift out of a lying down, to sitting, to lifting form leave his body. It went upward and diagonally across the ceiling corner. I even said aloud ‘This is wild’. And I KNEW he was no longer inside the shell of the human body. No question about it. I even felt like I was a part of it. Everything seen and unseen was connected in perfection, and a joyous peace. I am also positive that T and another presence were in the room, located in the corner of the ceiling behind my left shoulder. I felt like I could join them. I was connected I sensed knew that T needed to be sure that I was okay with his leaving before he could/would leave to go on. Dramatic ADC with husband immediately after his death.

Pat R Probable NDE. English expanded version 6/30/08 I found my self inside of a tube that was like a bank deposit shoot. Between my hospital bed and the tube shoot I don't know what happened. I knew there were 16 of these tube shoots in a perfect circle all pointing down. The tubes were each 40 feet long from what I could see, but they went on infinitely beyond that. I was head first into the bottom of the tube and had landed at my destination. These tubes were tight, tight, tight, so they held me tight looking straight down at the bottom of the tube. There were people in each of the tubes all head first down. The tubes were made of beautiful 6 " thick crystal glass and people were lining up behind me face down. Interesting experience - Back injury, coma, but no correlation of experience to time of life-threatening event.

Wendy M NDE. English expanded version 6/30/08 HEAD INJURY FALL OF A HORSE ON CONCRETE ROCKS… voice told me to hold on spoke at first in its native tongue then translated it into English. It was a man voice… A spirit warrior was sitting with me. I saw myself wide awake while I was out of body. Describes race as Native American. Head injury at South Dakota reservation.

Vicky M NDE. English expanded version 6/22/08 From Canada Then I was suddenly looking down at my body. I was keenly aware in my young mind what had happened. I could look around the room, seeing everything clearly but noticing nothing mattered - in a material sense. I was very aware of the fact I had died, and I had a choice to go to heaven or return to life on earth. I also felt very connected to the universe, and how we are all connected. I knew what I had to do - as I felt.. knew, I had work to do on earth.. I was here to help others. So I knew it was too soon to die. It was not a frightening experience.. but definitely a life changing experience.. it has affected everything I've done to this day and will to the end of my days. NDE due to meningitis, pneumonia, and collapsed lung at age 6.

Judith P NDE. English expanded version 6/22/08 From Australia Even though perfect stillness and everything in existence happening at the same time seems a paradox on Earth, it wasn't there. There was no comparison to make with anything because it completely erased my memory of Earth while I was 'there'. I can't adequately describe it but now I call it the 'void' because that feels right for it. I do remember thinking "my mind is working so well!!". I felt like an exquisite flawless diamond. Any questions I asked (and I can't remember what my questions or the answers were now) came towards me in an energy wave that I could feel moving towards me in every direction at the same time and was answering the question before I had finished asking it. It was enormous and personal all at once in that place. I was aware of a 'bubble' of information in my soul's mind over in the distance in front of me, where everything pertaining to Earth was and then I realized that Earth is a dream and not reality and anything pertaining to it was contained, sort of not in reality but within it with borders. NDE due to ruptured spleen. Quite profound experience.

Henry W Probable NDE. English expanded version 6/22/08 The next concept or rule I learned is that God can never be proved by scientific means. To do so would corrupt the environment. It would destroy faith. When we have faith we seek, we learn. If God were to appear before us a huge being at the United Nations. The entire world would believe but live in fear as well. To successfully experience the human existence, one must be physically out of touch with God. You have to learn and seek on our own. To search out the meaning of our own existence and experience here. Faith, is the engine of discovery, without faith we are just like ants. Suicide attempt. Profound spiritual wisdom encountered.

Rick R Possible NDE. English expanded version 6/14/08 I don't know how I got there but I stood in a huge hall. I could see the forms of people standing around me. I could not see their faces but it seemed like I knew them. I sensed this. The most usual thing about where I was, is that the ceiling was THE NIGHT SKY, with brilliant stars. The floor was like polished marble. Then he comes into the hall and walks straight up to me. I hear him say, "hello, I am the Son of God." From here on out I cannot remember anything else. It is like every thing just cuts off right there. He was about 5-10 to 6-0 tall, he had shoulder length brown hair and had a dark complexion. This is about all I can remember about the way he looked. Knee surgery. No life-threatening event.

Nithin S NDE. English expanded version 6/6/08 From India While I was eating food with my mother & friend it got into my respiratory tract. Then I couldn't take air inside. I fell down. struggling for air. I felt parting with my body & going upwards. I am now seeing a tunnel with light on other end someone is pulling me upwards. When I look around the surrounding is very bright. Then I can't see anything because of light. I have a strong desire to get into my body. Because my mother is crying for me. I can hear her crying from very down. Then suddenly I gasped some air with all my efforts. The food is moved out of the tract. Suddenly I get the feeling of inside the body. NDE due to choking on food.

Mariana Probable NDE. English expanded version 6/1/08 From Columbia, Original in Spanish, translated to English by Mariana. Everything was dark and silence. All of a sudden I heard girl children's laughing, the sound was very sweet but I couldn't see anything. Afterwards the clarity started, I saw the girls smiling and running around me. In some way I knew my daughter was there, then I felt so much happiness I smiled and felt I was falling into a very happy state that didn't let me react. Probable NDE but definite ADC from her daughter she had just lost in childbirth.

Rickie T NDE. English expanded version 6/1/08 The next thing I remember it was jet-black. The darkness was peaceful as it consumed my entire vision. I started to notice a pinhole of a white light. It was directly in front of me. As I sat there looking at this light it started to grow in size. It became so large that my entire vision was now white except the top corners, which were still jet-black. A circle of the brightest white light I have ever seen before in my life. The white light was so bright, that I was unable to see anything in or around it. What I did notice was that even though it was bright, it did not hurt my eyes. I began hearing my name being chanted. It sounded like more than one person was chanting my name. I became confused, because I was not sure who was calling my name. I kept staring into the bright white light but I was unable to see anything. NDE from attempted suicide

Gini C NDE. English expanded version 6/1/08 I saw a old Native American man and a cougar sitting in front of a fire. I approached him. He looked up and said, "Follow me." We went into a cave. The cougar was on my left side and the man on my right. As we walked through the cave, I saw my life from birth until present. When we got to the end of the cave, I saw a brilliant white light. The old man looked at me very sternly and said, "Choose." I guess I chose to live instead of going into that light. NDE due to hemorrhagic stroke. Met Native American and cougar. Lists her race as “Caucasian”.

Jeff S NDE. English expanded version 6/1/08 The pain grew and so did my screaming when all of a sudden I was in no pain at all. I was moving and moving fast. Eyes still closed. What about my family I thought? They will be fine the voice said and I was good with that cause I knew it was true. When I finally opened my eyes there was a beautiful city that shined like the sun. Is that heaven I asked? Yes the voice said. Then in a flash I had met my grandfather. He was much younger and very happy. In another flash I was at the bottom of the great stairs which lead up. As I looked up and focused there was God, Christ, and the Spirit surrounded by angels singing and praising. I fell to the ground for I knew where I was. Christ lifted me up and gave me a hug and said I love you. At some point my life was reviewed and I was told that it wasn't my time and would be sent back. Before I could question that I found myself in an orb of pure love and was cradled in the arms of it. NDE due to being buried while working on a well. Series of dreams appear to have prepared him for how to respond to the life-threatening event. Also has a soulmate story!

Darren T NDE. English expanded version 5/27/08 From Canada I REMEMBER STANDING IN A DARK AREA AND JUST LOOKING UPON A BRIGHT LIGHT IN THE DISTANCE. THE LIGHT WAS BRIGHTER THAN THE SUN - YET IT DID NOT HURT MY EYES TO LOOK UPON IT. BEAMS OF LIGHT WERE STREAMING OUT OF IT IN EVERY DIRECTION. AS THE LIGHT CAME CLOSER TO ME I COULD SEE THE SHADOW OF A PERSON STANDING IN THE CENTRE OF THE LIGHT. I COULD DETERMINE THE SHAPE OF THE HEAD, SHOULDERS, ARMS & LEGS OF THIS PERSON. NDE due to brain hemorrhage

Shonda G NDE. English expanded version 5/27/08 I shut and locked my door and started taking the pills. They were very small and I took around 100 pills… I suddenly felt like I was really small and looking down at myself on the floor. Everything was dark around me and I felt very very alone. I felt very sad for the person on the floor (didn't really associate that person with myself) I felt a sense of never ending aloneness. That is the last thing I remember until I was in the ER getting my stomach pumped. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Lorena NDE English expanded version 5/27/2008 From Peru, Original in Spanish, Translated by Mariana I felt like something was talking to me without words, I only knew there was somebody letting me know that I was wrong or confused. My life was like a movie only saw it from the moment I got married. There were no sequence of images, they were more like spots and I knew why I have lived that. It was a circuit or something that was growing up every time more and more that each spot was passing and my death was the goal, I just felt that God wanted me to reach that moment, because I understood many things and then I saw my husband passing from the same in that moment. Then I saw a future, my husband and I in a green prairie in a very nice little house, inside I saw I had more children, I just knew that my husband and I were very happy and I understood my mistake. I was cheerful and I don’t know why my faith grew up so much that I just knew God had put me in this. I asked him not let me die please, I asked him to let me see my son grew up, to show my husband that I love him, that I was wrong. I prayed without stopping I repeated I will not die I will not die.

Sana NDE English expanded version 5/19/2008 From Saudi Arabia Original in Arabic, translated by Jody via Google (so if anyone can help me clean it up so that it more accurately reflects what the experiencer was saying, I would greatly appreciate it) Then started feeling that the ceiling of the room is going on, and I started rising from the Earth towards the ceiling and enter the tunnel Spiral brings me to the top quickly, and I imagine my husband and my latest recommendations, which gave birth to the child and tell him: I die now, children must receive good care Take my grandmother to one .. I echo the certificates attest that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad Messenger of God again and again .. . I feel that I spent in the tunnel spiral smoothly and quickly pleased His Excellency indescribable when they began recovered consciousness and found myself still alive grief because I lost that feeling that indescribable NDE from childbirth complications.

Denise N Possible NDE English expanded version 5/18/2008 I had enough 'time' to feel like I was 'there' all of a sudden. I remember looking at the scene below, checking out the room and the dentist...just scoping the place out...kind of like in a detatched wonder...like "How cool...what's this?" started to try and figure out what was going on, where "I" was....then I felt a 'presence' near me. This presence asked me to look at the scene and focus. I didn't want to and started to turn and look at the 'being' next to me and was gently turned to the scene again and told to focus...kind of like a child was asked to focus. I was urged to do something about the scene....told to take the mask off the girl's face. Didn't feel like she was in trouble and didn't feel like I needed to do anything...kind of like a child thinking "Why...I don't even know this girl...why intervene...she looked like she was ok". I was urged to focus and take the mask off - the urgency or the 'thoughts' from this other being were becoming hard to ignore and I started feeling the need to do as I was told. OBE, possible NDE, associated with nitrous oxide for dental procedure.

Bill B NDE English expanded version 5/8/2008 THE TRUCK WENT OFF THE ROAD AND TURNED END OVER END AT THE TIME IT SEEMED TIME STOOD STILL AND HAPPENED IN SLOW MOTION. EVERYTHING WENT BLACK. I SEEN A MOVIE OF MY LIFE, EVEN THE BIRTH OF MYSELF LEAVING MY MOTHERS BODY, BEING DELIVERED BY DOCTOR. IT SEEMED I VIEWED MY WHOLE LIFE EVEN UP TO THE MOMENT OF BEING IN THE TRUCK. I WAS THEN IN A TUNNEL FLOATING AND HAD THE MOST PEACEFUL FEELING EVER IN MY LIFE. THERE WAS A BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL AND I JUST KEPT REACHING FOR IT. THEN, I WAS JUST BACK IN THE TRUCK, HANGING UPSIDE DOWN BY THE SEAT BELT. NDE due to truck accident.

Mieke NDE English expanded version 5/8/2008 From the Netherlands, Original in Dutch translated to English by Annelies. An acquaintance who was using drugs at the time flipped and turned on me. He put both his hands around my neck and started to strangle me. I tried to fight him as best as I could but I couldn't prevent him pushing backwards He pushed me into a closet. At a certain point I "went" , I saw myself "leave" and then everything went black. Then all of a sudden there was light on the left and darkness on the right. A pleasant male voice asked: Mieke. do you choose the light or do you choose the darkness? I said: I choose the light. And then it seemed the light filled my body and it went through me into the boy who was strangling me. He let me go at once and apologized. Shared experience - the strangler let go when he felt the light go from her body to his arm.

Juan Carlos NDE English expanded version 5/7/2008 From Columbia, Original in Spanish translated to English by Rio. I could only think: "It's over," and I began entering into a tunnel of light, with a much greater and brighter light towards the back. As I went into the tunnel, I didn't want to go back. This could have been a phenomenon associated with the lack of oxygen, but the most astonishing thing is that at a certain point I saw myself on top of the water and I could swim toward the riverbank, leaving more than 200 companions who were with me astonished. I thought someone had pushed me towards the surface but nobody knew who it was, nobody had an explanation. The only sure thing is that I felt frustrated because I didn't want them to take me from there. It was a marvelous and unforgettable experience. Teenage drowning NDE.

George T NDE English expanded version 5/6/2008 From Romania, Original in Romanian translated to English by Mariana. I saw next to me two sturdy men who took me in their arms in order to transport me to the ambulance, they looked very tall and very bright – afterwards I found out that I had been walking to the ambulance on the arm of this nurse who helped me, also I was told that I had been laying at the back of the ambulance all the way to the hospital, but I remember being in front, next to the driver, I even felt the breeze on my face, at the same time I could not understand why he did not answer me – after some time we arrived at the hospital, and I saw everything they did in order to resuscitate me, at the same time I went down the hallway to speak with this man who was covered in blood and was trying to get up from the floor, I helped him and I asked him what had happened to him, he told me he overdosed in order to take his own life, but now he couldn’t move and no one was helping him, I think once in a while I was back in my body for a second or so and I could see everything around me but did not understand. This is a short description of what happened to me during my first NDE. NDE from Suicide Attempt.

Christine A NDE English expanded version 5/3/2008 The first scene I remember was that I was in my apartment bedroom (where my body lay). My ceiling light was on and my body lie near the right side of my bed. I was on the left side of my bed, not up in the air, yet not on the ground either. I saw several people knelt down around my body, so I couldn't really even see myself. The people wore dark clothing, so I'm assuming they were police. I think I saw one person with a white shirt (EMT?). While I was watching the 'event' I was with two of my deceased relatives: my grandfather's cousin, Aunt Kate (who was more like a grandmother to me); and my Uncle Harry. In life, these were really the only two members of my family (besides my mother) that I was close to. I loved them very, very much. I don't remember ANY strong emotion at all during the NDE. In fact, I felt almost emotionally detached from what was going on. I was not elated, I was not frightened nor angry, etc. Just peaceful, calm, and almost like accepting. But I 'knew' why Kate and Harry were there. I knew that they were going to take me somewhere. NDE due to heart arrhythmia as a result of chemotherapy for leukemia.

Angela P NDE & Meditation English expanded version 5/3/2008 From Tasmania I looked up and thought to myself that I was sure that I had turned the light off, when I had gone to be. I thought the light was coming closer to me and then thought I was dreaming. I looked down and saw myself and the sunshine through the window and realized I was not moving. I struggled inside me to move but could not until I heard this gasping sound which accompanied my arms moving and I opened my eyes and I could still hear this gasping when I realized it was the rush of air into my lungs. I was so terrified and utterly exhausted. I was surprised to find myself on the floor and lay down on the bed and slept. NDE due to allergic reaction and meditation experience.

Carol M NDE & Possible NDE English expanded version 4/29/2008 From Saudi Arabia Original in Spanish, translated to English by Rio. I began seeing everything white around me, like this blank page to write on. At the same time I felt a presence as if someone was with me and began explaining to me about some doubts I had at one time. Not with words, but with images and perhaps telepathy since I do not remember hearing a voice. But I could understand everything he said and it was all so clear and obvious that I wondered how I could not have understood this before and that my mother would also be happy to know it. I understood that everything good and bad happened for a purpose. That God hopes the devil will understand that God is so good that notwithstanding all the bad the devil does God is unable to cause harm to him. When the devil understands such great love, this whole world system will come to an end and all will know this other world that people such as I try to describe so poorly. I understood that God is everywhere because the material world hides what scientists so earnestly seek, even the smallest part of material creation is God. Experiencer has a masters degree, born in Bolivia, and living in Saudi Arabia where the experience occurred. The experience during child birth is a possible NDE, but the drowning experience when she was 16 is a NDE.

DW Experience English expanded version 4/27/2008 I loved it, but it had loved me first and I loved it for loving me. I wish that I could explain how precious that was to me; To be wanted when I didn't even want myself. I had just killed me. To be told I was not only desired as one to love, but that it wanted me to love it. That I was sought out in such a way by one so loving was more than I could understand. What greater love is there than a love that reaches out to you and says, "I will always love you", then shows you all they are, not knowing if, in the telling, something will make you judge them someone you can't love. It made itself vulnerable to my rejection. How could I not love a being that trusted me with all of it's true self? That being already KNEW me before I arrived there. It chose to love me and wanted me to love it, KNOWING all of it. I wasn't asked to love blindly. I was showed the self that wanted me to love it. It wanted to be chosen by me as one that I would love. It had loved me before I was human, it loved me before I was born, it loved me being back with it, but most of all, it loved that I loved it, too. It was joy filled that I loved it. I was in a state of bliss from the love we shared. So was my new friend, the Divine Loving Being. Our perfect understanding in complete Love was, and could only be, Divine. I was HOME. That is what it felt like, the ultimate homecoming. I was where I was meant to be. I fit perfectly there. I was so glad to be there, loving with that being. "It was where I was meant to be" is as close as I can put it. To be together with that other, loving self was the perfect place for me to exist. NDE due to suicide attempt. Note From Dr. Jeff: "This is among the most profound NDEs ever shared. I encourage EVERYONE to read this."

Bonnie J Experience English expanded version 4/27/2008 The next thing I sensed was a surreal feeling of floating high, high in the sky. I had all of my senses though I felt I no longer had a body. All around me was bright, bright light and I sensed so much love I felt as if I'd never ever felt before - quiet, peace, serene contentment, no pain, now worry, just a tremendous sense of BEING - of me BEING. I hear (sensed) love, joy, peace, contentment. I floated without seeing anyone (relatives that had passed away). But, if this makes sense, I FELT God's presence. Then I sensed (heard - I hesitate to describe the event with our human terms because I never HEARD anything yet I know I was asked) a question. The question was: 'Are you ready Joyce?'. I struggled with the answer and then I was shown my graveside. The grass around my burial plot was vivid, vivid green, the sky was blue, there was a gentle breeze - I even heard a bird sing. People were leaving the coffin for their cars. The only 3 people left by my coffin were my husband, my daughter then aged 3 and my son then aged 17 months. AT THAT MOMENT I KNEW I could not leave my children - I telepathed my answer, "NO". NDE due to boating accident.

Sylvia P Experience English expanded version 4/27/2008 I believe this occurred during the emergency, exploratory surgery to save my life. I later found out that during the surgery my body started to 'shut down.' My experience was that I was in the dark, lying down, but I felt very comfortable. I was experiencing total comfort and not afraid in any way. A figure walked in ( although dark, I could see him). He was someone that I had know as an acquaintace all my life and about the age my father would have been. This person had passed away several years ago. He sat down beside me, not facing me, and reached for and held my hand. After some period of time he tugged on my hand and I said, "I am not ready to go with you." He very gently paced my hand back by my side, and walked into the darkness very slowly. He never said a word nor did he turn his face to me, but I knew him. After he left, I remember nothing until I woke up the next day on the ventilator. NDE associated with surgery.

Kathleen S Experience English expanded version 4/24/2008 TOOK AN OVERDOSE OF INSULIN. I THEN PASSED OUT AND LLOYD PUT ME IN THE CAR AND TOOK ME TO THE HOSPITAL. I DO NOT REMEMBER ANY OF THIS BUT I REMEMBER WAKING UP WITH MYSELF SITTING IN THE CORNER AND WATCHING A SHEET BEING PULLED OVER MY HEAD AND THEN MY SPIRIT FOLLOWED THE DOCTOR OUTSIDE INTO THE WAITING ROOM AND THE DOCTOR TOLD MY HUSBAND THAT I HAD 2 HEART ATTACKS IN 5 MINUTES AND I DIED. MY SPIRIT THEN FOLLOWED MY HUSBAND OUTSIDE AND HE PUNCHED THE BUILDING AND SCREAMED NO, NO, NO AND HE SCREAMED AT THE SKY AND SAID WHY GOD WHY? I REMEMBER MY UNCLE RICHARD MY AUNT MARY AND MY GRANDMA AND GRANDPA WERE WAITING FOR ME WHEN I WENT THROUGH THE WHITE LIGHT. THEY SAID YOU NEED TO GO BACK BECAUSE YOUR CHILDREN AND YOUR FAMILY NEED YOU HERE ON EARTH NOT IN HEAVEN YET. IT WAS A VERY NICE RIDE THROUGH THE WHITE LIGHT AND I DID NOT WANT TO COME BACK NDE due to insulin overdose.

Sandra H Experience English expanded version 4/24/2008 I was then floating down the river on my back but I was watching myself from above rather than actually experiencing what I saw. I could see myself gurgling and coughing up water but it was immediately being replaced by new waves of water and I looked as though I was choking while trying to breathe. Watching the water fill and float across my open mouth looked odd to me from my aerial view but I couldn’t quite figure out why; it was like watching a movie in slow motion. I remember telling myself to try to calm down and take calm breaths. I knew I was supposed to turn my body so that my feet were pointing down stream and to use my arms as ballast but I didn't maneuver and I couldn’t really figure out why I wasn’t doing what I had been taught. I could see my toes sticking above the water but my arms were completely at the mercy of the rapids as they hung at my sides quite a bit under the water. Although I was being bumped around a lot, I couldn't see anything from my physical body and it seemed to be very quiet as I was floating head first down the river. NDE due to drowning.

Jenny E Experience English expanded version 4/24/2008 While in the throes of a bad car accident, my deceased grandfather (that I was extremely close to) came to me. At the time, I was 22 years old and working in Manhattan. I was just about to rent my first apartment away from my family. As the impact was happening, all of the events surrounding my life at the time went through my head (mainly the rental of a new apartment). My beloved grandfather came to me with his arms and took me out of the wreckage. I had no seat belt on and at the time, many of my friend who had see the car thought that I had died in the wreckage (It was that bad!). I survived by the grace of my grandfather and I'll never forget it… I was looking down upon the wreckage. NDE due to auto accident.

Hafur Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 From Mexico Original in Spanish, translated to English by Rio. The figure on my right, who was guiding me, stopped and I could not see his face and as though we were at a small, enclosed beach, there was a hill that served as a place for projecting my life from beginning to end several times. At first rapidly and afterwards more slowly. It was amazing how my life was shown with events I had completely forgotten about and others that were so insignificant that it felt like I was seeing each frame of the personal movie of my life on earth. I realized that I understood everything with a great clarity and super-lucidity I had never experienced before. I discovered that I had personally chosen to take on a physical body and have the life experiences I was having. I realized I had wasted time in suffering and what I should have been doing was using my freedom to choose true love, and not pain, in all that came into my life. Exceptional NDE! She met her twin flame too!

Ryland D Fear Death Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 From Australia When I got sucked into the drainpipe, the instant I knew I was in trouble, my life flashed before my eyes not like a movie with scenes in it. It all happened in an instant - you remember your whole life and what you have done. It is a very peaceful feeling, (besides from the trauma of almost drowning) everything was very relaxed and calm. It felt like I was underwater at least 10 minutes before I blacked out, but only 2 minutes had actually passed. Then I could feel nothing; like my brain wasn't working at all, for I don't how long. Then suddenly with a flash of white light, I came to as I was being pulled out of the water but I could not see anything but white light for 5 minutes. Afterwards everything just looked new to me, like the trees and grass and everything looked so much brighter and vibrant for a day at least. Now I feel so much better about life like the event changed the way I feel. Near drowning. Life review apparently began prior to loss of consciousness. Age 16.

Matthew L Probable NDE English expanded version 4/19/2008 There was no sound. No movement. I was frozen in time, in the moment. I had no pain, just a feeling of astonishment. It felt as if someone was holding me up in that river, keeping me afloat. I felt love, and friendship. Then there was this booming, loud voice. It said," you can sit up and fight to live, or you can lay back and die." There was no judgment in the voice, no right or wrong answer. For me, I know what the answer was immediately, because I was young, and there were things left for me to do in life. So I chose to live, and at that moment, I was thrown back forcibly into life, violently. I had no breath in my lung, for the other one was punctured. I struggled to breath. I struggled for well over a minute to get air into my lungs, and when I was about to pass out, breath came flowing into my lung. Then I knew that I had a fighting chance to live. Definitely NDE-like, but not sure if there was a clear separation of consciousness.

Donna S Probable NDE English expanded version 4/19/2008 When I flat lined at first there was nothing. Then there was an extraordinary bright (white) light. Very, very, bright. Then it started to change to a beautiful blue. An indescribable blue. Then suddenly I was back. The Dr.'s had to shock me back to life. The first thing the nurse to my left said to me was did I see the light. When I came back I was very emotional and crying. I didn't even know what had happened. They had to remind where I was and why I was there. The word children was in my head right away and I couldn't stop thinking about the word children for weeks. I was also depressed. When I was at home recovering my dreams at night were about angels. I was really seeing them a lot in my dreams when I slept. The experience put question toward my beliefs. She had an experience during cardiac arrest, but did not experience a separation of consciousness.

Kimberly F Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 I was promptly told "You can not come home yet." I continued to try and go forward and it kept telling me "No, not yet, it is not your time." I then felt compelled to turn and look back at the tunnel and that was when I was transported back through and out the other side of it. I looked down and that's when I saw them bringing that paddle machine over to my body. I saw the doctor grab the paddles, say something to the person standing next to it, they turned some knobs, the Dr. put them on my chest and hit me once with the shock. I saw my body jump but I felt nothing. I then saw the Dr. say something to them again, they moved the knobs again and he hit me a second time....nothing. Then, I saw the Dr. put the paddles together for a moment (as if saying a prayer) and then said something to the person again....the person shook their head in disagreement but went ahead at the Dr's insistence and moved the knobs again. When he hit me the third time I awoke in ICU. My parents were told by the Dr. that I had died, I was what they call "sheet-faced" and he took a chance by hitting me with the paddles a third time. He admitted to not being a really religious man but he said he felt he was being told not to quit...so he didn't. NDE due to being shot in chest with shotgun at age 12.

Karen H Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 In the last couple of years before Christmas 2006, I'd lost my husband, home, horses, dogs, and my car. The last two days before Christmas 2006, I lost my job. I was fired about 10:00am. I gathered my things from my desk, marched to my car and drove to the house where I'd rented a room. I swallowed sleeping pills and klonopin. After vomiting once or twice, I wrote a note and lay down to die… During the time I was out, I remember being in a pitch black void, with me glowing softly within it. I felt complete relief, love, warmth, security, acceptance and lots of other things that I can't really describe. I was able to surrender to this darkness without fear. Since I don't have family or children, I had a feeling that it was OK that I stay in that void forever; everything would have gone on without me just fine… I have very, very bad eyes (almost legally blind) and I could see myself and my "glow" very clearly. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Lesley B Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 From Australia As a family we had gone for a swim the pool. I was left in there and although I had floaties on my face was under the water. My Uncle said that I had been there for 6 minutes. He pulled me out and could not feel a pulse. The walls of the swimming pool were peeling away. I was standing on the bottom of the pool and stamping my feet alternately in excitement. It felt like I was at the door of a birthday party (I was 3) and the door was about to be opened and inside were all the children having fun and enjoying themselves with all the presents and party food and games. I saw lovely green grass like a field and big trees. I couldn't hear the birds though. I wanted to go in but my relatives said to me that it was not time yet and to go back and behave myself. I was disappointed as I wanted to stay. NDE due to drowning at age 3.

Chad Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 Then it got all warm and I realized I was dying. It was me there. All of the horrific pain was gone. I felt better than I had ever felt before like a peaceful deep sleep feels. Disconnected. I felt happy. All of the sound started to get further and further away. The next series of events happened in what felt like about 2 or three months, but was actually about 15 minutes. No one came to me or anything like that, but more like a movie of what I wanted in life. The girl I liked at the time was my wife which came true 2 years later. Kind of like if I had complete control of the future, I got to build the perfect life. Then what felt like a ton of bricks fell from the highest building onto my chest like three times in a row about 10 seconds apart. NDE due to his car being hit by a truck.

Selina Experience English expanded version 4/19/2008 From Australia On passing out, I felt a sudden rush past many peoples faces. the were taking at me but couldn't understand what was being said. Finally reached end of light to be kissed and sent back…. As I reached the white light I received a kiss - distinct sound… My mother had passed the day before and I believe it was her that kissed me. NDE during childbirth when she passed out.

Bonnie G Experience English expanded version 4/18/2008 From Canada I put on the brakes, but the van went sideways, fishtailed and then rolled about 4-6 times, landing upside down. I was aware that I was on the roof of the van, by the sun roof, green foliage was visible. Slowly I felt my body lifting away and in that moment, travelled through a starry tunnel/portal quickly, there I stopped floating, in what was a kind of a void. I felt not one Presence but several, maybe 3 or 4 and a feeling that in the void there, even my brother, Terry, who died one year prior at age 29 was there somehow. It was so peaceful, as if floating, like in that space just before falling asleep, tranquil, yet aware at the same time. These Presences said in a language that had no words, it wasn't my time yet, there was still much for me to do. My brother had said that when he died he did choose to go when asked, but for me I wasn't going yet. It just was not my time. NDE due to auto accident.

Sanz Probable NDE English expanded version 4/18/2008 From France It was in the course of the surgical operation after the anesthesia, normally I shouldn't have felt anything (Previously I already had 4 surgeries) but suddenly I felt a very strong pain in the chest, as if my heart was taken off from my body and at the same time, a continuous sharp sound like a buzzer. Then the pain stopped as well as the sound, and I was sliding down a kind of black hall with a light at the bottom looking as a cotton material or steam appearance (difficult to describe) I didn't see any presence but heard voices as if several people were whispering together (male and female): here she is coming, she is coming...and suddenly another voice, a male voice, much louder and with an authoritarian tone said : no it's too early. That's it. Not sure this was lucid. She says she had less consciousness and alertness than normal. They did heart studies on her, but uncertain if she had a cardiac arrest.

Harriet K Experience English expanded version 4/18/2008 I clearly remember watching the angiogram as it was taking place--a person was holding my hand, there was a large square machine above me, and several people at the foot of the bed on the right-hand side. I was still comatose, and I was watching it from the left upper corner of the room. When I described it to my father several years later, he went white--I had exactly described the angiogram: the description of the machinery was accurate, the people at the foot of the bed were doctors, and my father was the one holding my hand. The angiogram was intended to pinpoint the abscess--I had been in a coma for 4 weeks, and an EEG the night before had shown a somewhat fuzzy outline of the abscess. My parents had been told that without surgery, I would either die or be left a vegetable--if the abscess opened, it would open quickly and overwhelm my system. But overnight, the abscess literally disappeared--when the results of the angiogram came back, the abscess was gone. Needless to say, I survived, and I went on to graduate from law school. NDE at age 7 while in coma during angiogram for brain abscess.

Minerva Experience English expanded version 4/18/2008 I kept telling the ER nurse that I couldn't breath. All of a sudden, it was very bright in the room. I was floating over my body. The nurse went to the doorway and shouted "code blue". The equipment was making a horrible screeching sound. The light outside my ER room was flashing. My mom was standing by the door holding my son (who was 6 months old at the time) A male nurse jumped on top of me and started CPR, as a couple other medical staff started rolling me out of the room and down the hall. I stayed with my mom as my body was being wheeled down the hall. When I left my body, it felt as if a hook from the center of my back pulled my soul back and up out of my body. I wanted to stay with my mom and my son, but the angel (I didn't see the face told me I must go) I went through a bright tunnel up to the most beautiful place I had ever seen. My grandma was there, although I don't remember seeing her face I feel she was there. There were many angels there. No one was talking using words, it was like all the talking was done through our thoughts. ADC from deceased father. NDE from assault by former husband.

Cyndi G Experience English expanded version 4/18/2008 I was above myself drifting upwards and away. I felt very calm and wanted to go towards this beautiful space. That I still have trouble relating to. The dr. told me that they could not get my heart going and kept me open for almost 4 hours ..They had lost me several times... I saw them working on me but what was so strange or beautiful was that there were people all around the operating table standing behind the Operation Room crew and doctors working on me. They had these very long very white robes on to the floor and all had hoods coming almost over their heads. the robes were pointed at the top of the hood. I could not see there faces except for ONE ...He stood at my head as I was floating above them going farther and farther away, he raised his head and looked up to me it was The face of my Father...He had died 10 months earlier… NDE while under general anesthesia for heart surgery at Mayo Clinic.

Roseann Experience English expanded version 4/17/2008 Original in German, Translated into English by Iris. About two hours later, after the ward round, I asked her what she meant by referring to the letter. She responded that she sensed from what I had written how much I liked my mother and she described me in detail what I had written. I insisted on the question how she could know about all this and she told me that she had watched me from above, from the ceiling. I had written the letter at a desk and worn a green bath robe. I wanted to know if she could speak Spanish. She said that she did not speak Spanish but she again accurately described what I had written. She described my pen, how everything was arranged on my desk, the writing pad which all exactly matched how it really was. She even could describe the Roman style of my chair. I asked quite desperately: “How can this be possible?” “I do not know, I have never experienced anything like that”, she answered. I could not find an explanation and finished the conversation. This is a second-hand report, but what a REPORT!

Jaqueline NDE English expanded version 4/17/2008 Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva. I answered, "Wow, if you knew how lovely it was to be there with my Mama; well, I didn't feel pain, or anything but yes it scared me very much, not being able to breathe but later I felt a relief and nothing hurt; it was a peace and an immense love that I felt in my heart and my soul, knowing I had that experience and that even 'though the interval during which I couldn't breathe was horrible, after that was the most marvelous experience I'd had in my life; before, I was scared of death and now I don't feel the same; I give an infinity of thanksgiving to God for placing you and Linda as my angels who fought and fought even when it looked like there was no hope."

Maria N Fear Death Experience English expanded version 4/4/2008 From Mexico, translated to English by Eva. Towards me came a truck that would take my life. In that moment I saw myself enveloped in an invisible bubble. I floated. I felt as if I'd entered another realm of time. There was a tranquility, a peace, beautiful music in the environment. I felt, at that moment, that I was in a wonderful place, full of peace and love. There was no time--nothing. Only that peace, that love, that music. Something protected me. I felt as if I'd always been there. Suddenly, I felt a tug on my hand. It was my daughter who had removed me from the path of the truck that would irremediably have killed me if she hadn't reacted in that manner. At that moment I left the bubble and returned to reality. Fear Death Experience.

Carolyn H NDE English expanded version 4/4/2008 I was looking into a huge kaleidoscope. There were colors of soft blue .pink and yellows. They were all spinning around and then there was a big pop. Then it went black . All of a sudden a bright soft light appeared in the distance. I could see a figure in the light but it was too far away to make it out at first. Standing right in front of me was my mother, father and brother. MY parents looked 30 years old and my brother about 16. The figure in the back ground started to come closer. As It did I then realized it was God. He told me I am not ready to come home. Short, but a nice NDE.

Yvette P NDE English expanded version 3/21/2008 From India I must have cut a blood vessel since I was bleeding profusely. It was right next door to a clinic and when my head was being sewed up under local anesthesia, I must have lost consciousness. I remember a loud roaring in my ears and rushing through a long, dark tunnel at the end of which was a very bright light. I cried out loudly (or so it seemed to me) 'Not now, not now' and peed. Fortunately I was having my periods then and was safely padded ! With that shout, I came round and saw all the faces around me i.e. doctors, nurses, my friends who were with me in the accident and my sister, all looking very normal - and I was puzzled as I expected to have been asked what I meant by 'not now'. Of course I myself would not have been able to answer that question at the time ! NDE due to unconsciousness while being sutured following injury. Relatively rare non-Western NDE.

Sandra E NDE English expanded version 3/21/2008 The doctor said that I folded in half across it and then the back of my head touched the back of my feet at which time I broke the ligaments in my back landing on the floor on my back. The next thing that I remember is standing and the back of the house not being there anymore. It was replaced by a very bright light that I could sort of see through. I walked out of what was the back of the house taking three steps thru the light. It felt like I was walking down a few steps. Beyond the bright light was a intensely bright meadow with mountains beyond the meadow. Everything was very beautiful and green and bright. There was a single large tree offering a bit of shade and a lovely stream flowing a few yards from the tree. I think it may have been an apple tree because it had bright red "spots" in the foliage. Around the stream were animals drinking water. I remember a deer and a squirrel on the other side of the stream and a rabbit on my side. I sat down by the rabbit and gently put it in my lap petting it. NDE at age 11 due to fall.

Sara H NDE English expanded version 3/21/2008 When Dr. F pulled the line, blood started spurting out and that is when he called Code Blue. I remember seeing the Light and how warm and beautiful it was. I wasn't sure if it were coming to me or I was going to it. But the warm wonderful feeling I had, I knew everything was alright. I loved the feeling. When I did come back this doctor that was not my doctor, was there holding my hand. They were sending my to ICU. This doctor was sent to be with me. I know that the divine intervention was there. He took my family to the side and told them, that he had seen Jesus at the foot of my bed and Jesus said "it is not her time" that's when your grandmother squeezed my hand. All the nurses in the hospital said how spiritual this guardian angel doctor was and how if anyone seen Jesus it would be him. I know I was going to the other side. NDE due to complication of medical procedure.

Fanny L Probable Life-Threatening Event English expanded version 3/16/2008 I thought, I am having a heart attack, but that can't happen. Not now. I got up and crushed and swallowed some aspirin. I laid down and propped my legs up in order to have better circulation. I kept feeling different things happening to my body, but I kept fighting to hold on. Everything seemed to be going in slow motion. I kept doing things to stay in my body like flexing my fingers and toes, trying to do deep breathing, which was hard because I was struggling with that, and most important, I would feel my son's face and hair, just to keep that connection. He kept me going. I should have called 911, but I was afraid that if I left my son's side, I would die. I was scared and I prayed to God. I told Him that I knew He could save me, and that I needed to be alive to take care of my son. There was a point when I left my body. I didn't exactly see, but was given the knowledge that if I left now, my son would never recover from the experience. I was uncertain of what was going to happen, but I knew that I wanted to stay alive. I heard a familiar voice, although I can't quite remember who, saying; "You must return now." Probable heart attack. Felt strong emotion. OBE.

Jennifer H Probable NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 From France As soon as I was under the anesthetic I seemed to travel at speed along a dark tunnel, vortex. I reached the end on a sort of moving staircase. I was surrounded by night stars (although the operation was taking place in the daytime) but it appeared quite light. I was greeted at the top of the staircase by 7 or 8 people. They appeared silver. I knew that I knew and loved them, although I did not recognize them. They were very happy to see me and I felt as though I had come home. I do not know how long I was with them. What I did have was a very strong knowledge that I understood EVERYTHING in the world. I knew the reason for every mortal thing and felt a deep sense of peace. Finally I was embraced by all but told I had to go back. I was devastated and didn't want to go. I had no thought for my family on earth (although I had two small children and husband, mother and sisters). They didn't enter my head. I was deeply upset at leaving. I was told by one person. "It isn't the right time yet". Then I stepped back on the staircase and started rushing back into my body. As I returned I was conscious of losing the feeling of understanding everything and was desperate to try and remember it - but it vanished. I came back into the world screaming. I heard the doctors saying I was very distressed and then nothing more. Emergency surgery after poorly done hysterectomy. After anesthesia started, OBE into starry sky. Not clear she nearly died, and a little unsure of timing of experience.

Kevin P NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 From Germany Then I felt like slowing down and being stopped in what seemed absolutely like space near the earth to me. At least that was what I would imagine from movies. Somewhere near earth, but at least a little farther out than the moon, because earth was not bigger than the moon usually is. I remember seeing Europe, Asia, Africa, parts of North America and the northern Ice shelf through the clouds. I remember being totally absorbed with that sight and wondering what is happening here to me. While wondering about that I more felt than heard something like a voice which sounded in me, asking something like: "Was machst/willst Du denn schon hier? / What are you looking for/What do you want already here?" Suicide attempt, and was hit by train. Relatively rare OBE state where what he saw of his injured body was not verified by his observations after the NDE (unless he had an inexplicable partial healing).

Tammy R NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 I know it's hard to believe at 3 yrs old going on 4 i can remember this but I was in a severe car accident and next thing I know I'm going down this beautiful "Golden Tunnel" at it felt like 100mph then I came to a sudden stop and this beautiful "Golden Light" and that is when God spoke to me and told me my life would not be easy but he would always be there for me and send many angels and at 16yrs old the same thing happened but remember no words were ever spoken I just knew but he told me I'm not ready and he's sending me back and not to ever try to take my life again that is his decision to make and not mine and told me how much my parents love me and to stop being selfish but I wanted to stay so bad. Two NDEs described. First age 3 due to accident. Second probable NDE at age 16 due to suicide attempt.

Susan R NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 But any ways, this nurse, pumped one bag of blood and started a new one. I had turned back to go to my brothers, and it was then I heard another voice - a voice I had never heard, so warm, it surrounded you, it touched you, it was love. He was telling me it was not my time. I was on my knees and touching his robe. If love had a scent that was it, so pure. I did not look up. It was like I could not look up. I said, "I do not want to go back!" I begged. At this time I began to understand my brother's words. They said, "Come here sister." I remember that I did not want to let go of God's hem. My oldest brother took my hand. I looked down at myself on that bed. I looked back at my other brother, my twin, and he said, "They need you, go." NDE from blood loss due to miscarriage. Declared dead.

Timothy M Possible NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 I was walking down a path in an obvious direction away from a starting point. To my left and up about shoulder height were people and scenes I recognized from events that had happened in my life prior to were I was at the time. when I reached the point of the accident that spawned this coma. When I reached the point of the accident I turned and walked back past the events I had just witnessed. when I reached the last event I entered a stone cottage and in the cottage were two very old beings they reminded me of "Yoda" in the movie "Star Wars. These beings were to my right and in front of me was a big picture window or opening. I could see a large green meadow and there was a church down at the bottom of a hill. I wanted to go out into it but the two beings said I could not. When I asked why they said "you are not ready" I walked back down the path to the accident. This experience stays fresh in my mind while I can't remember any thing else. I suffered a Traumatic Brain Injury and have a really bad memory. I am no longer afraid of dying I am sure there is more for us after this life. Was in coma. Walking down path, saw past scenes from his life. Can’t correlate time of life-threatening event with experience. Could be ICU experience.

Matthew M Possible NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 the next thing I remember was that I was on an airplane, or something similar, and there were 2 people with me a man and woman.. the man didn't say much, but the woman talked w/ me, I forget about what, then I remember being in a doctors office, my hand was paralyzed, and e injected me we/ something, and immediately it was back to normal!! I know this sounds bad but I had sexual relations w/ 1 of the "flight attendants", then I remember the girl who was with the guy came up to me and said I couldn't go with them yet, but she will see me in the future. I didn't know I was in a coma, which lasted 2 or 3 weeks. My question is, how did I know my hand was paralyzed BEFORE I woke up from the coma! impossible, I now suffer immense pain in my leg because my ankle is paralyzed, and the rest of the muscles are compensating for the paralyzed part. Anyhow I KNOW there is an afterlife, I caught a glimpse of it, remember it everyone DIES so this cant be all there is. My experience was so real it took my dad 3 months to convince me otherwise!! Coma for several weeks. Can’t correlate time of experience to time of injury. Could be ICU experience.

Bonnie C Probable NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 I see the three maple trees in our yard adorned in leaves of every shade of the rainbow. Yellow, golden, orange, rust, brown, reds, burgundy, greens, purple. So beautiful the sight feels like music could burst forth. I'm moving "upward" now, like a helium filled balloon, rising. Now I see the entire valley we live in. Main street, church steeples, my school, the old Paper Mill, Blum's Shoe Factory, F.A. Owen Publishing company, Kelly Brothers Nursery, the airport, Foster Wheeler Corporation, Bernard McFadden's Hotel on East Hill. And most striking of all, "the flats"....at the North end of town. This is a 10 acre parcel of land that is pitch black with fine, silt-like soil and the site of an old Indian Reservation long since abandoned. I'm looking at our village and I feel like I'm a part of all of this. I belong here. I feel love rising from the very ground. I'm struck by the beauty of this place. There is harmony, purpose, reason for living here. This is almost certainly a NDE. Clinical death at three months of age due to illness. At age 3 years recalled highly detailed experience consistent with a NDE. First shared experience with mother about 42 years later who collaborated some details. Shared 59 years after clinical death. Contributor is a nurse.

Robert I NDE English expanded version 3/16/2008 The image of a city started to appear as I got closer. The houses and lots were terraced, and translucently outlined in a beautiful warm blue light. There were children running and playing in the yards. As my feet landed firmly on the ground, people started coming out or the dwellings toward me. The closer the people came, I recognized my father first, who had passed away in 1969!! Then my Grandfather, Grandmother, Aunts, and Uncles that had passed on. We formed a huddle arms over shoulders, and the feeling of complete weightlessness.....No gravity I felt my soul melding with the huddle. Without mouths moving, I relate it to mental telepathy, a voice asked me if there was anything that I needed. I was at TOTAL peace so there was nothing I needed. NDE due to “too deep” anesthesia. Collaborating this is the fact that anesthesiologists generally do not wait in the recovery room for their patients after surgery is complete.

Elisa P NDE English expanded version 3/15/2008 From Italy. Original in Italian, translated to English by Barbara. Suddenly I slide from the wall and then all was dark around me, deep dark. I didn’t have a body, I was immaterial. I had only my thought and stop, nothing all. I forgot my body. The time moved fast and I thinked very fast. I saw me at 2 years old, then at 4 in the sea, etc. suddenly my life it’s over and then I saw 3 slide of my probable future. In that moment I was very sad because I was death and I know it clearly and I wanted to return at life to live a life plenty of things. Slowly I saw a bright light around me, per instinct I know that was ‘the line’, the ‘passage’ and if I passed through it I was death. I decided not to pass into it because I wanted to live in my world and enjoy all things in it. In this time I know all the energy into world, I know all. I began to pray… Suddenly it was dark but a different dark and I began to feel my own body again and then I open my eyes and saw the blue sky and I was ecstatic because I returned in life. I was completely changed. NDE from a fall into a ravine.

Jaime M NDE English expanded version 3/11/2008 From Columbia. Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva. In an instant, I found myself in a patio of a two-story house and at the bottom at about 30 meters there were many people; there must have been 50; all were very happy. They were listening to party music and all of them chanted my name: "Jaime, Jaime". It seemed to be a "welcome" party; the place was very beautiful with much light. I was imbued with a sense of fortune and happiness that I'd never before felt with such intensity; without doubt the most pleasant sensation of my life, as was the feeling of being welcomed--the strongest of my life. I was able to recognize my deceased mother among all those persons. NDE from surgery complications.

Lynn R Probable NDE English expanded version 3/9/2008 From the UK. I had no recollection of "time" as in the conscious state so I am unclear when this event took place. I am uncertain if it was while I had no pulse or remained in ICU. I could not see my physical body and felt like I was more of a spiritual being. I could see an illumine cent white/blue light that was a distance away from me. I did not travel towards the light, but it was there. The only thing I could do was rely on the feelings I was having. There were no spoken words and was just an unspoken knowledge of what was occurring. I felt overwhelmingly calm, at peace and very much reassured that I was okay and going to be okay. I remember wondering why I was not travelling towards the light. I just knew that it was not yet my time and I was experiencing what I was for comfort? Reassurance? Or maybe just the knowledge of faith and a taste of what is expected at death? I still don't know. I do not talk about this experience to many, nor have I told many people. I still have many questions myself. Respiratory arrest due to asthma and 10 days in ICU. Not sure this experience occurred at the time of imminent life-threatening event.

Lucinda T Fear Death Experience English expanded version 3/9/2008 From the UK. I naturally assumed I was surely to die. At this stage I saw five amazingly spiritually beautiful people coming towards me, full of vigor, with a lift in the stride, and the light played around them which was emanating from them. They were in white and pale clothes, and one lady had a white dress with material with a blue floral pattern inset. The man slightly in front had fair hair, parted. He already knew exactly how I had come to be there; I was relieved by this. They were amazingly friendly and warm, and I was so pleased to meet them, and still feel really fond of them. I had never seen any of them before. They were warmer, kinder, more gracious and more alive, at one with their purpose, than anyone I have ever met on earth. But I said to God that I had four children, and that this didn't seem the right time. At risk of drowning, but not clearly unconscious due to drowning.

Lindsey S NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 Then suddenly there was a tremendous crash as if a bomb had hit the ground. Everything went black, I found myself in a void of total nothingness and before I knew it I felt such peace and a sense of floating. There were thousands of soul's floating around. I felt their emptiness and feeling of solitude and loneliness as if they were stuck in limbo. Then my father was there to greet me, he was smiling and guiding me through all of the many lost souls. Everything happened so fast, as if a million episodes were to be put into a time frame of a minute. There was no time in this world and I found myself only in space. A sense of great peace was coming from a light above the lost souls and it drew me in. I wanted only to be in that light where the incredible and profound feeling of peace was coming from, this was my only focus. It was easy to move through the layers of evolution in the spiritual world. I experienced many layers not knowing what they meant not realizing I had died nor had I felt I had a family I left behind. The peace was all that I felt drawn to. NDE due to being struck by lightning.

Shelley S NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I remember feeling panicked, afraid and then nothing. I watched in a strange silent stillness as they worked on me. I could not make sense of it all until "it" arrived. I don't know the words to use to describe "it" just that I got the message in the form of scenes, like video clips of what I needed to know. Some was of the future, only I did not realize that then; and the rest was more like instructions or explanations of what was to come. And then without words but still I heard; "it" sent me back and I knew why with such utter clarity. When I took my first breath I knew why, it all seemed so clear and then I slept. NDE due to auto accident. Remarkable gifts of future vision and empathic understanding following NDE.

Andy D NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I had a massive heart attack with 100% blockage in my right coronary artery. Actual clinical death occurred twice, once in the ambulance on the two hour ride to the hospital. The first event is not as clear in my memory, very hard relay it's feeling. The second event is still very clear and happened on the operating table. I have a hard time putting it in words but here goes. All sound and vision slowly closed in and eventually stopped all together, both at once. A feeling of great relief and a knowledge that everything would be alright came to me. I am not a person who ever feels much joy or happiness but that is what it must be like. Total bliss with absolute peace. The event ended similarly to the way it started only opposite. Slowly a white noise static type sound began and got louder and louder until a feeling of a thud then I came back. NDE following heart attack.

Lisa H NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I remember being in and out of consciousness, trying to look around to see what was going on, until I slipped into almost a peaceful sleep, I was not afraid or worried. I seen what looked to be a very bright light all around me, it was beautiful. I seen what seemed to me as angel wings around me, I could not make out any faces, just knew they were there. One that really stood out to me was an angel so bright that was right in front of me, she had on what looked to be an African necklace. What seemed to me standing there with her a very long time, which actually was only a few minutes, but her necklace is what continues to this day to stand out to me. NDE due to surgical complication.

Amber D NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I see myself walking down a HUGE yellow, tunnel which seems to be made of yellow glass or light, the whole thing is glowing. It's like being in something the size of an airplane hanger, only taller, and as I mentioned it is a great big tunnel. I'm peacefully walking along, going to my death... Of course as humans we are very reliant on the breath, on air... breathing. Yet I realize that I am not breathing anymore, only rather than producing terror as I had always imagined not breathing would do, instead its an incredibly blissful feeling! That experience of the bliss of living without the breath was a huge relief and is a big part of the reason for a lessening of my fear of death since the experience of the NDE in my life... NDE due to illness and possibly water intoxication.

Kate D NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 From Canada I was unconscious for about seven hours. The experience happened right before I woke up in the emergency room. This is what I felt and what I saw. I was sitting on my grandfather's lap, ( who has been deceased since I have been 8 yrs. old) in the kitchen of the house he used to reside with my grandmother. I was happy to be with him, to see him again after so long and I had felt so at peace just sitting with him on his lap. As I was sitting there, I noticed his arm's come above me and he placed a wooden box in front of me onto the table in the kitchen. It almost looked like a small, intricately carved jewelry box. As he had placed it on the table, his hands opened the wooden box slowly- as if to gain my interest as to what was inside. As he opened the box, glowing white light emerged from it. It felt magical as it appeared and I slowly bent my head down into the box to see what was inside. NDE due to overdose of GHB (Gamma hydroxy butyrate, an illicit drug).

Baldwin R NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I was laying on wet ground that was rather cold. The ground sloped upward, I used all my strength to stand up. When I did I realized I was in a tunnel. Up ahead I saw Numerous people. As I started walking toward them and old lady came toward me. This 30 years later I figured out was my mother's Aunt Mary. She led me through the tunnel past some people, to A soldier In a formal uniform with decorations etc. But the uniform seemed strange it was not like mine and he wore spats or leggings. After that Aunt Mary took me to the right towards a bright light that got brighter as we approached it. There through an arch or gate I saw; many people smiling. NDE due to severe pneumonia.

William T NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 It was as though I was stuck in an clean, approximately 8 Ft. Diameter pipe with the brightest white light at one end and completely pitch dark on the other end. I sat at the end of the pipe closest to the light and wrapped my arms around my knees. I was crying but did not feel scared. The light was somewhat comforting to me, however, I was not certain what to do, or how far I could go into the light. I recall resting, and perhaps falling asleep, in this position. Then I recall watching my brother and a neighbor (friend), carrying something into the house. (I realized later that they were carrying my unconscious body into the house). After regaining consciousness I found myself in my bed, crying. NDE due to head injury at age 9.

Dian C Possible NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 Eventually I was called back into the back part of the ER and then went to surgery. At some point I slipped back into the experience and found myself in a "class" with several other beings. It was kind of a neutral place similar to the physical plane. There was a large building that looked somewhat like an outdoor tent similar to the ones rented for vendor space only this took up an area about the size of a city block. There were tables with a variety of “tools” which went to the 100 or so students. Each of the students got one and knew which one we needed to take. These "tools" all had different functions. Also, the students were divided in groups of three except for mine which was one being and me. It seemed that both of us were last minute additions to the class. There were several instructors and it always seemed that we got the instruction we needed (never having to wait until an instructor was available). The being I worked with had a tool which could make constructs which could contain and manipulate metaphysical energy. I had a healing tool but it wasn’t physical-it seemed to do emotional healing. It wasn’t your typical college class. All the content was experiential and it did not matter how long it took us to “get it” since time did not work the same way as it does here and some of the tools were more complex than others requiring more time to learn what we needed to learn from using the tool. Burst appendicitis. Several experiences. Very ill, but no clear imminent life-threatening event. Experiences totaled 8 months in duration.

Janet N NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 From Kenya When I passed out I felt a strong force drifting me away to higher ground. then I came to again. when I opened my eyes, I saw my brother carrying me to the car then I passed out again. this time I was breathing hard when allover a sudden I breathed one last breath. this time I found myself in a void. I don't know where that was but I felt as if something was lifting me higher. in the background I could hear my brother calling out my name and screaming to my father that I wasn't breathing. it felt as if he was miles away. then all went quiet and I saw a big tunnel or something like a whole growing bigger and getting closer as it got closer, a light was appearing. at first I was frightened but the a sudden wave of calmness appeared as the light got lighter and the tunnel got wider. I suddenly thought to myself where was I going and started fighting back. NDE due to pneumonia in association with malaria and typhoid. From native of Kenya, with NDE occurring in Kenya.

Daniel T NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I felt all the pain in my lungs reside and felt comfortable, then I felt warm. I remember going through a tunnel, the best way I can describe the tunnel is if you were to place two horseshoes together at the u part and bolts of light were shooting out from the ends. As I was floating I saw orbs of light and as I passed I saw people's faces which I did not recognize. As I got to the end of the tunnel the only face that I recognized was my Granny Wilson's. My Granny Wilson had died in the mid-40's and I had seen her picture on numerous occasions. As soon as I saw her I knew who she was. As I passed by her, going towards the bolts of lights, the bolts of light stopped. Then I found myself buried up to my neck, and all I saw was a whole bunch of people around me also buried up to their necks. Again I did not recognize anyone. At this point I felt frightened. I was able to look to the left and look at the light and feel warmth, then I would look to the right and saw a black hole and felt cold. As this was happening I heard a buzzing sound. Then I heard my Grandpa's voice this is what he said, "Breathe Dan, just take a breath." NDE due to complications of pulmonary embolism.

Donald M NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 From Canada I stole my dad's car and drag raced a friend on a back road. I lost control and went into the ditch. everything went black and then I could see myself slumped over the floor console in the car from inside the roof of the car. all I could think of is who is that? Things went black again and then I could feel and see I was floating through a field and all I could think of is I had to see my sister and say goodbye. Things went black again and then I saw the tunnel and the light. It was a warm feeling, hard to describe. I heard a lot of voices of men, but the loudest was a woman saying "it's not your time go back." I felt disappointment by that. then things went black again and that's when I came to in the car. NDE due to auto accident at age 15.

Michelle P NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I felt so blissful and whole...full of the most love I had ever experienced. I thought to myself," If this is dying, then its not as bad as everyone thinks it is" Then I saw a light from "above" me. It was pulling me away from the room. I figured it was okay to just let this happen, to go with the flow and except whatever was to be. The light was getting brighter engulfing my body...body? I had no body. It stayed back down in that damp room. I realized that I was dead physically but mentally I was still alive. My soul was now my "body". I looked up into the light. I could see someone beckoning me to come. He was there at the end of this lit tunnel. Then I heard a voice. It was a man's voice. He asked me if I was ready. I felt so good. It was so easy. NDE due to being shot.

Mary Jo R NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I knew it was God because he was an omnipotent being. Not like a person...much less limited in form. I did not see God but felt him through my skin. He spoke through all of my senses. He called me by name and told me I could not stay. I protested. I told him all of my services on earth (working 24/7, not much money for my work, a good wife, a good mother) I did not want to leave this place. Then God asked me...He said "let me ask you one question". "Have you ever loved another person the way you have been loved here". The love I had received in that time was so overpowering...I had never felt anything like it so I answered God honestly. I said, "No...it is impossible...I am just a human, you are God". He gave me the illusion of a sweet protective chuckle. He then said, "Mary, you can do better". I woke up to my husband shaking my arm and crying...telling me I was very sick and they were going to have to take me to surgery. NDE due to cerebral aneurysm.

Lela L NDE English expanded version 3/2/2008 At the time of the hanging It was my weight was cutting off circulation to my brain. I could have gotten up at anytime I wanted to but chose not to. All I remember is I started floating down at a good pace down a dark tunnel filled with jewel toned lights. Like they were bricks lining the tunnel and a black hole at the end. I wasn't afraid or didn't feel anything. It was strange? I could hear my friends that were alive telling me no Sue, no Sue. When I came to the wire had broke and I was laying on the floor of my closet. I was upset at what I had done and never attempted suicide again. NDE due to suicide attempt.

John C SOBE English expanded version 3/2/2008 I was viewing it from the side, me walking with my parents, alongside a pool, then I had slipped into the pool, the view that I was first viewing from was almost as if I was watching it from the opposite side of the pool, then I had fallen in, and when I fell in, I started to close into myself viewing it as if I was using a grappling hook to view it, then as soon as I had lost consciousness, I had viewed the lifeguards' view, in both third and first person, and as I had gotten up, I regained consciousness. Interesting variant experience. Occurred about age 3, shared age 14. Apparently OBE began prior to fall into pool. Apparent bi-location of consciousness.

Gilbert H Probable NDE English expanded version 2/17/2008 From Netherlands. Original in Dutch, translated into English by Bert. At a given moment, my thoughts started wandering off and a bright white light arose around me, until I found myself in a kind of white room with a peaceful and serene atmosphere. Everything dear to me, family, partner, dog, seemed to have lost their importance (only I was important). After this phase I was asked whether I wanted to live on. After an outspoken "yes" (cause I felt I was too young with still a lot of potential), I gradually woke up. States CVA aneurysm and describes being in a white room and given a choice to live. Can’t be sure of timing of experience relative to the CVA aneurysm.

Rae P NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 From Australia. After leaving body to enter light… The whole experience happened in a "cavern"… Just a very bright light all round… Two life-threatening events. Apparent NDE(s) described in fragmentary fashion. Happened 40 years ago.

Laura D NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 All of this time, I was thinking, just leave me alone. There was the most brilliant light I had ever seen and I felt so warm and loved, and there was a golden ladder going into the heavens and you couldn't see the top of it, as it disappeared into fluffy clouds up so high. Around the bottom of the ladder there were several Angels flitting about. I felt at peace and happy and wanted to stay there. NDE due to premature childbirth 47 years ago.

Mouse NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 I was doing a tilt table test to see how my heart would react. I started to feel out of breath and dizzy nothing new for my condition, when all went calm. I was gliding over an aspen grove where I grew up and over a lake my father and often fished as I was a kid. Then it was like I came to a cave in the mountain with a boulder covering half the entrance. The light coming out of it was so bright, and there was a person standing in front of the stone. I could not see who it was but he filled me with love. I did not want to go back I could hear some one saying breath, you need to breath. The person in front of the stone said it was not the right time for me to come home. I wanted to stay in the calm. The person said you have to back it is not your time. When I woke up the told me I was unresponsive. NDE due to complication of medical test.

San J NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 After his first chemotherapy treatment, his body went into shock, and he was clinically dead for an amount of time. He was brought back, however, and through a tremendous amount of courage was able to live another year and a half before succumbing. After being stabilized, and able to leave the hospital, he told me the following story: He knew that he had died, and he was in a dark place. Above him there was a bright light, and he felt a strong urge to go into it, as if people were calling him to do so. But at his feet he saw a multi-colored flower, and something stronger told him to hold on to it with all his might. It was at that point, he believed, that he was brought back to life. Second-person NDE account. NDE due to complication of treatment of malignancy due to AIDS.

Molly H NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 I WAS SHOCKED (3) CONSECUTIVE TIMES TO GET MY HEART STARTED AGAIN. THE 4- 5 MINUTES I WAS "DEAD" SEEMED TO BE FOREVER. DURING THAT TIME I WAS DRAWN TO WHAT LOOKED LIKE THREE VERY LARGE ANGLES SITTING IN A PEW. NEXT TO THEM I SAW A LITTLE ANGEL CRYING. I WAS SO OVERWHELMED AND FELT SO MUCH COMPASSION TO SEE HER. SOMEHOW I "FLEW" OVER TO THE LITTLE ANGEL, AND TO SURPRISE, IT WAS ME! THEN I "FLEW" BACK TO THE THREE LARGER ANGLES WITH REALLY BIG WINGS, WHO HAD NO EXPRESSION AT ALL. I WANTED TO SIT WITH THEM, BUT THEY WOULD NOT LET ME. I WAS VERY UPSET AND I WANTED TO BE WITH THE ANGELS SO BAD. THEY OR SOME ENTITY OR FEELING WAS TRYING TO SEND ME BACK. NDE due to cardiac arrest during surgery.

Chris H Probable REM Intrusion English expanded version 2/11/2008 As the shapes and shadows of the room faded into a psychedelic fashion, I could see the "snow" come together until there was a bright light filling up the room, almost like the light one sees after a flash bulb has gone off directly in your line of sight, but instead of slowly fading from view, the "after image" of light began to grow brighter until I felt as if I was finally enveloped by it. I still was aware that there was darkness and fear behind me, that the evil being was still in my room... but I was drawn to the bright light and with each step closer to it... (was I stepping of floating? I'm not sure which)... I felt the fear began to drift far away. I was suddenly aware that if I looked back, I might face the terror again, but I couldn't help it. I looked back and was shocked to see myself lying in bed asleep, next to my wife, with my eyes closed. Probable REM intrusion experience shared by a physician. Click here for an article Dr. Jeff co-authored involving REM intrusion.

Amanda J NDE English expanded version 2/11/2008 From England. THEN ALL WENT BLACK. Later on when I died again it was like a dream I saw my step father who I considered my real dad, he gave me a rush of love and told me that this wasn't my time. I had to go back. I was reluctant. I didn't want no more pain and I didn't have the strength any more. he surrounded me with more love and told me I would find strength and help I just had to ask. I had to go back I remember crying and then I woke up aware that I was in a hospital in intensive care rigged up to all manner of machines. A nurse removed a pipe from down my throat and then I felt my dad kiss me on my cheek. Later on my mum confirmed I was left naked and she did go mad at the doctors. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Reen Probable NDE English expanded version 2/9/2008 From Egypt. Original in Arabic. Possible NDE from auto accident. She describes a life review, but not sure if it happened during the 12 minutes she was dead.

Vicky NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 By the time they got me in the ambulance I had to totally force in on breathing. The last thing I remember was telling the guys that I was having real bad chest pains. Felt like a ton of bricks weighing me down. When I saw the light I felt the love and wanted to go into it. Wondering who was there with so much love for me. As I started to go into the light. Out of the darkest, as if it was coming from me. A big brown eye baby girl came to me face to face; eye to eye. Eyes open wide as if to say, Hey, what are you doing? With that I reply, "Ok, I'll fight!" She looked 1 or 2 years old. NDE due to allergic reaction to drug. Apparent future vision of a baby she will have at some future time.

Lisa R Possible NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 Then I just felt cold and was alone behind a curtain that was drawn around me. It was if I was seeing in a tunnel vision and everything began to have a glowing affect. This is when I saw what I like to call an angel. I don’t know if it was the shock or the fear but she was there. It was a little old lady with white hair and the bluest eyes I had ever seen. She asks me if I was scared and I said yes, I think I mouthed it in my head instead of saying it. She reached her hand over mine and it was so warm. At that moment I felt a peace come over me and she said it’s going to be alright honey. Then she was gone and they came in to take me to surgery. Possible NDE from childbirth complications.

Michael R Possible NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 I couldn’t see any thing other than darkness. It seemed in the blink of an eye everything was gone. It was not a slow transition it was like closing your eyes and opening them to black and nothing. I felt my body was close by but my mind was not with my body. It felt as if I had left my body and couldn’t make out what was real and what wasn’t. I saw flashes of things that had past in my life. Not like a movie it was more like fast blinks and I was unable to stop it or move from it. The feelings were of panic and fear. There was a great overwhelming feeling of anxiety. I felt heaviness like being smothered. It felt like I may be drowning. I could hear a muffled sound and hissing. It was like someone talking but nothing could be made out. I had a feeling of despair because I couldn’t tell if my life was real or this place I was trapped in was real. I couldn’t tell if any of my life really existed or if I had always been in the blackness. I was in a state of mass confusion. Possible NDE from drug overdose.

Teri NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 There is life after this body dies, and it goes on forever as there is no time. All life on earth is connected mentally. We are in a cocoon like state here in these bodies, and when this body dies, the cocoon opens and we are free. We become our beautiful, butterfly selves as we were intended. There is a plan, it is all extremely organized, like a very complex mathematical equation. I knew everything but I can't remember anything else. NDE associated with anesthetic complication during childbirth.

Christy NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 I remember total darkness, being comfortable, and not wanting to leave. I felt like I was on one side that was separated by a grey boundary. On the other side was chaos. I heard my mother crying. Instantly, I felt like I was given a choice, even though I didn't hear anybody speaking to me. Somehow I knew that I could stay and it would be easy or go back to the complicated chaos. I didn't want to go over to the chaos. I felt no pain, and I was completely comfortable. My mom's crying pierced that zone, because I became worried about her. I felt myself make a choice to go back. Next thing I knew, I woke up with everybody crying and carrying on. NDE due to seizure at age 11.

Kat M NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 I locked myself in the bathroom and swallowed, one pill at a time, two bottles of sleeping pills. things got really fuzzy really fast. I figured I would go to sleep and it would be over, but as soon as I fell asleep, I just rose out of my body. my mother somehow knew something was happening from 45 miles away, and she called 911. amazingly, they believed her and sent out an ambulance. I remember watching my then husband look at me, not breathing, and walk out the door. he got in his truck and drove away. I could hear his thoughts about how angry he was at me for 'doing this to him.' I watched the paramedics start my heart beating, and the room went fuzzy. I have a brief memory of being in my body again, and then I was floating. once we reached the hospital, I phased in and out of my body, mostly floating in a blissful void, where I couldn't feel any pain. I heard a voice that said simply 'wake up, wake up now' and felt an excruciating, stabbing pain in my chest. NDE due to suicide attempt (drug overdose). Interesting in that mother, who lived 45 minutes away, felt something was wrong and called 911. Hallucinations followed the NDE.

Wesley W NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 He/they showed me the next crossing, but I really should stay "here" and not to go on any farther. They/he asked me if I remembered the strange epileptic-like fevers that I had when I was a child. I did. And they showed me that they were there then, and the bike wreck when I was only 5 years old. They showed me again. There they/he were. They showed me that He/they were at the birth of my first son. They showed me some other stuff but I was not allowed to remember. Then He/they told me that I was not done yet. He/they brought my attention to the body on the floor of the truck. I remember asking them who he was? All they would say is that I'd better wake him up or he will die in the fire! So I went to shake his arm to wake him when I realized that it was me on the floor of the burning truck! He/they told me that the only way out was through the fire and that it would be o.k. NDE due to truck accident.

Lois M NDE 3482 English expanded version 2/3/2008 Now what I recall I felt like I couldn't breath but then didn't care I didn't feel anymore pain I was above my body (I did not see my body convulsing it appeared to be just laying there with eyes wide open.) Then I seen this bright light in the corner (which would be the SE corner of my living room) As I was looking at it It got brighter &more intense ( before anyone asks no it wasn't blue/white off white or yellow) It was ummm it was umm just bright & intense in the center with pulsing Multicolored rays that blended together coming off it. As I starred at it I was like being pulled ever so slowly towards it. NDE due to drug reaction.

Debra C NDE English expanded version 2/3/2008 I was floating in place colored orbs of indescribable color were coming toward and all around me a feeling of peace and calm that you cannot describe, beautiful! Then whoever is beside me starts running through my life at a pace you cannot describe in words (like they did in with Scrooge in the Christmas story), showing bad and good, the part that got to me the most is when I was shown the pain and devastation that my leaving would cause my parents especially my mother. The cry (wailing) of my mother's voice was unbelievable. NDE due to drug/alcohol overdose at age 16.

Walter R NDE English expanded version 1/31/2008 From Italy. Original in Italian, translated into English by Amy. Like a change in scene on TV I found myself flying (still at the same height above the ground, ten meters) over a green field but the green was a splendid color, I flew through this amazing green at a good clip and I remember that this field was like a hillside and I needed to get over the top. Below me the grass passed by but the horizon did not get any closer. And then another change of scene in a flash I was in a tunnel of light, but there I wasn't flying and I wasn't walking, I moved as though zooming. I got to the middle of the tunnel and the light was becoming more and more intense, but the brighter it got the more my joy grew, a warm joy, a sensation of peace, it was like looking at the sun, but the sun compared to this light is weak, very weak, in addition the sun is very annoying. Experiencer is an atheist. The experience did not change his beliefs that the NDE is a product of his brain.

Dirk D NDE English expanded version 1/30/2008 From Belgium. Original in Dutch, translated into English by Garry. I remember floating above the stretcher and looking down seeing someone laying under a sheet, (and realized that it must be me. This bed was being pushed by several orderlies. At the same time I noticed the tiles along the hallway and the armatures on the ceiling that served the fluorescent lighting. (Later when coincidentally I found work in this same hospital I happened to walk through the underground passage and I remembered the area from previously when I had been out of body.) NDE from car accident.

Patricia D NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 I found myself in a a very velvety, comfortable black place. It seemed to be as infinite as space to me although I couldn't see anything. I felt as if I was swinging back and forth ever-so-slightly at the center of this space. I had no knowledge of me (as I know myself to be in my usual waking consciousness) but I had self awareness. I felt as though I was a tiny little "pinprick" of consciousness. I felt very content to float in the warm comfort- I don't recall having any thoughts at all. All of a sudden, the thoughts rushed in and I became very flustered. I specifically remember thinking "Oh, I'm supposed to be doing THAT" - THAT meaning this life - as if I was an actor playing a role and had missed my cue! I was that same feeling when you remember you left the oven on or forgot to pick your child up from school. A slip of the mind with important consequences. As soon as that thought occurred to me, I was awake and staring at the shower door from my position on the floor. NDE due to complication of medicine and head injury.

Robert NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 As I was coming out of anesthesia I could not see, move, talk or breath. I thought, "I can't believe I'm dying". I could hear all the commotion and the doctors and nurses coaching me along to hang in there. I wasn't sure they knew that I was not breathing and I had no way of telling them. After a few minutes I lost consciousness and that's when a beautiful lady came and took hold of my hand. I didn't know where she was taking me, but I trusted her completely. The next thing I remember is sitting up straight as my breathing tube was pulled out. NDE due to post-operative inability to breathe.

Andrew R NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 My car had flipped and while it was happening I heard glass breaking and other noises but then it went calm. It was different then being knocked out, I then woke up or believed I woke up and climbed out of the vehicle and to the top of the hill where I had flipped. I then tried to stop passing cars but no one seemed to see me. I then went back into the car because it was still running so I thought I should turn it off, that's when I saw what I believe was my own body. NDE due to car accident with head injury. I suspect the head injury accounts for some negative aftereffects of the experience.

Jeff C NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 I remember feeling very relaxed and comfortable, and being very aware of myself, my identity. I felt like I was floating but I saw only black everywhere. I remember thinking that I was dead and this is what being dead feels like, but I was warm and comfortable with no more needs like paying bills or eating or feeling hungry. I didn't want to go back but then my eyes opened and a nurse was leaning over me checking my eye dilation. She said we lost you for a little bit… I also believe that my experience was not as DEEP as others and you can get more out of the experience if you are further from physical life e.g. brain death. If I needed more I would have gotten more. I didn't we are all were we need to be, even skeptics create balance and harmony. NDE due to allergic reaction from fire ants bites

Denver P NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 I floated and traversed over the most greenest prairie of tall grass. I could not believe that my being was floating above the ground. It was more exhilarating than any roller coaster! In the center was a very ancient and Holy tree which I believe was the tree of Life. Beings of all spectrum of light also floated and traveled about. There was no pain, no suffering, a sense of euphoric calm that is very difficult to express in words. Remember now, it was during this time that the doctor had told my mother to prepare of the possibility of losing me. All beings chanted the graces of God and praised him. I feel a leap of excitement every time I relive that moment! NDE due to complication of treatment of pulmonary embolus.

Deirdre P NDE English expanded version 1/27/2008 I was just there. It was as dark as the darkest night. I had a sense of standing before a presence. It was communicated lovingly and firmly that I could do better. Knowledge, compassion and understanding of difficult past events I had been through were acknowledged and I was assured that I had never been or never will be alone, not for one moment. Then I rested for some time. It was the most peaceful loving calmness I had ever felt. Then it was time for me to return. I begged and pleaded not to have to return. The love that I felt in those moments, in my eyes, did not exist down here. I argued, wanting to know when I could come back. I was told that things were still going to be difficult for a while and they would get better and then difficult again and then better again. I was told that I would be so happy here that I wouldn't want to leave. I was reassured that I would never be alone and that everything would be okay, to just keep moving forward. And then I was back. NDE due to head injury from falling out a car.

Jan H NDE English expanded version 1/26/2008 From the Netherlands. Original in Dutch, translated into English by Garry. I experienced darkness during my near death experience after a suicide attempt by ingesting fifty pills. I ended up in the intensive care unit of the Erasmus Hospital in Rotterdam. I saw a big black vacuum-like hole that seemed to exude great peacefulness. It was clear that the black hole was about to swallow me, but before I went in I was given a choice of a lot of films that I could watch. There were black films and white films. The black films were the bad things I did in my life and the white films were the good things I did. I only wanted to see the white films; these films were of my young son from his birth until the present time. After I had watched all the white films all of them disappeared. The big black hole stopped it's vacuuming. It was obvious I wasn't welcome in the hole/tunnel. After that I regained consciousness. NDE from Drug Overdose.

Rick J NDE English expanded version 1/24/2008 From the Netherlands. Original in Dutch, translated into English by Garry. I've also felt the experience of having judged a thousand people and felt the emotions of these victims. However, when I finally looked upon those I had judged, I was so terribly ashamed of myself, I did not wish exist any longer. Especially after a beautiful and radiant being saw and touched me, and I saw at once how I had been wrong and why. Thereafter, other beings asked what I wanted, as if I had yet to be born and that the choices in that life had to be made now. Questions like, do you want to meet your future wife; do you want children; how long would you like to live, etc. Even now I'm still putting together the particulars of this incident at a time of serious uncertainty. NDE from falling accident.

Colonel Fahad NDE English expanded version 1/21/2008 From Iraq. Realizing that, I tried to lie down on my bed but lost balance and fell to the floor losing consciousness. When I came back, I saw my body on the floor so I stood up. To my surprise my body was still on the floor. Myself, in my “new” body, was standing by it. My attempt to understand what had happened came to an end when I felt I was ascending upward, leaving my body on the floor. On reaching the ceiling of the cell, I tried to stretch my arm to avoid to hitting the fan, but nothing happened. The fan kept rotating. My body kept ascending upward passing the ceiling and was climbing up in the sky vertically. Looking down, I saw the ministry of defense buildings. Then I passed through the layers of clouds over the city of Baghdad and was in the clear blue sky. 1966 NDE from an old regime when he was a fighter pilot detained in prison. Really fascinating account and atypical from western NDEs. As with almost all NDEs posted, we leave it to readers to determine authenticity. Here there is a possible commercial interest. But then again, we do have many NDErs who have written books that are posted on the website.

SB NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 The car spun around several times striking the guard rails. I was then above the wrecked car looking at my body, I was being pulled toward a soft white light. It gave me a very wonderful feeling. I heard a voice talking to me from the white light to come with them. I very much wanted to go with them. I talked to them but not through voice. It was through mental communication. I wanted to go but I had an over whelming feeling to go back. I told them I was to young to die and even thought the feeling I was experiencing was of warmth and love I wanted to return. I remember returning to my body and opening my eyes and a man yelling to me and trying to pull open the door that had jammed in the wreck. NDE due to car accident.

Lisa NJ Probable NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 during that surgery, somewhere very deep I was given a choice between life and death by a messenger, Jesus, god, the powers. It was wind falling up and being sucked down like a tornado. tight air. lightness. smallness. then peace. the most darkest darkness that could ever be blackness. I'm so tiny...the light is tiny-then larger, wiggly, blossoming into fullness, ghostly moving, energy, possibly a face, blue white-clear-smoky like rays of sun that don't burn. all knowingness. I know I want to die. it hurts to be gutted. the messenger knows I want to die. he/it calls it and asks me "if I want to die", but not with words. it starts as words but it becomes intense thought into my thoughts but wind, screeching, birds? energy. cool collective to the point. I don't know how to explain it. Two emergency surgeries for bowel obstruction. Experience during second surgery, but no definite life-threatening event.

Christina M NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 From Ireland. WAS ON A GOLF COURSE ONE NIGHT, HAD FALLEN, BANGED HEAD, AND THE PEOPLE I WAS WITH (ONLY MET THAT EVENING) THOUGHT I WAS DEAD.. THEY SPENT A WHILE (BUT NOT VERY LONG TIME, MAYBE 5 OR 10 MINUTES) SHAKING ME AND TRYING TO WAKE ME UP, AS I WAS RETURNING I REALLY FELT THEIR PANIC THAT I MIGHT BE DEAD. I REALIZED THEY WERE GOOD PEOPLE REALLY, DOING THEIR BEST - NO BAD INTENTIONS AT ALL. MOST VIVID FEELING IS LOOKING DOWN ON MYSELF - ON THE GROUND, WITH THESE 3 PEOPLE SHAKING ME AND FEELING REAL PITY FOR ALL OF THEM 'WAY DOWN THERE' .. IT FELT LIKE A SICK JOKE THAT I WAS BEING PLUMMETED RIGHT BACK INTO MY BODY EVEN THOUGH I REALLY, REALLY DID NOT WANT TO GO BACK 'DOWN THERE'... FELT LIKE NO SOONER HAD I THOUGHT 'OH POOR THEM' ... THEN I WAS BEING THROWN RIGHT BACK DOWN BEFORE I HAD TIME TO PROTEST ! NDE due to head injury.

Lee Fear Death Experience English expanded version 1/19/2008 I had an out of body experience right before the impact. My last thoughts was "well god hope I make it out alive." The next thing I know I was in the passenger side of the car looking at myself. The strangest part of it was I knew I was out of my body because I seen myself out of my body in the passenger side and at the same time when out of my body I was thinking, "this is weird," looking at myself then looking at my body. I then watched my body come up a couple of inches of the seat leaning forward towards the windshield. Next thing, I was back in my body watching my face hit the glass. The glass cracked but right before my face hit everything looked like gold that was all I could see maybe it was cause the car was gold? Everything was like in slow motion it was only a split second but seemed longer than that.

Marge M Probable NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 During the night I woke up to see my bedroom curtains blowing up to the ceiling but didn't feel any breeze on my skin. I saw a bright light approaching - a very white light - but I didn't have to shield my eyes at all. I thought I was dreaming and definitely recall pinching my leg to see if I was awake. I heard a male voice coming from the light but I couldn't see a person and the voice said, "Come, follow me." I remember that I felt so warm (not temperature warm), but warm in a comforted way and I recall sensing that the light was all-knowing and was love. There are really no words to describe this feeling - words can only lamely touch on it. I remember telling the being/light through my thoughts - not out loud - "not yet." Very NDE-like experience. Rose from bed, walked into bathroom, and collapsed. No clear OBE.

Mel B NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 All I recall from that point is that the pain grew worse and worse and, as I was still curled into a fetal position with my eyes closed, that the pain ceased immediately as I felt a sensation of a warm wave of heat or energy, starting in my abdomen, and expanding outward from the center of my body to my head and feet and then, I saw a fog in the near distance illuminated from the rear with an incredibly bright light and a stick like figure silhouette with legs, hands and head standing in the fog. There was no pain, total bliss. Then I heard a sound in the distance and started to feel a sensation of not discomfort but more like annoyance and the next thing I saw were bare legs of someone in gray sweat shorts and when I looked closer I saw that the person was wearing a gray t-shirt that was dark with sweat and he was cursing at me saying that I better not die on him. NDE due to complication of appendicitis.

Francisco GV NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 From Mexico, Original in Spanish translated to English by Eva. All of a sudden, my vision started to malfunction--I saw the edge of the pool [as if] from very far away and I stopped feeling any kind of sensation like cold, wanting to breathe, emotion, etc. Suddenly what I could see, I saw from afar as if I was drowning in my own vision. Everything turned dark for a very brief instant, because after that I saw a tunnel of a dark color and my body headed towards it. When I reached the end of the tunnel I found a landscape of an intense white color, but it did not hurt my vision. I didn't feel afraid. I felt very tranquil. Then I saw a friend who had died a while back; he had been my best friend. His name is Nestor. I felt very happy to see him, but at no time was I afraid. NDE from diving accident. NDE from diving accident.

Jean C NDE English expanded version 1/19/2008 From Argentina, Original in Spanish translated to English by Rio. I was completely conscious and terrorized by what was happening and without ceasing to have physical convulsions caused by the electricity, I began having at the same time--what was clearly and with total awareness--a life review. I don't remember if this went back in time or began with my childhood, but it was as if living the actual life of other people and feeling the consequences of my actions on them. Everything I had done in my life had consequences and these were felt and lived by me, causing me to feel profound sadness, repentance and pain which I will never forget. It was a fearful and unpleasant experience. NDE from electrocution.

Vasiliy NDE English expanded version 1/17/2008 From Ukraine, Original in Russian translated to English by Ivanda. At the beginning there was a horizontal, very quick flight in complete darkness followed by sudden move up towards a very bright light. The feeling of time disappeared (no time existed there). Anger and all unpleasant emotions disappeared. What remained was overwhelming love for everything. All secrets of world’s creation and meaning of life were revealed. I wanted to remember everything very much, however… Later some being took me by the right hand and was leading me around places that possessed fairy tail like beauty and was explaining something very patiently to me. I was trying to remember everything. Upon returning to the body, my right hand for a while had extrasensory abilities (I unintentionally caused 1st degree burns on my relative’s back while trying to remove her back ache). Right after being discharged from the hospital I had to attend a funeral where I physically felt closeness of invisible substance. Later on all my abilities disappeared. NDE from surgery complications.

Rita Probable NDE English expanded version 1/16/2008 From Italy, Original in Italian translated to English by Barbara. I don’t saw my body, I was in a world filled of light, peace, love and knowledge. There were beings surrounding me with clear and warm light. They spoke with my mind and I understood all. Then a voice at my shoulders said that I must return in my body, that’s not my right place that. Suddenly I fell in a black hole and I was in the prison of my body. This is probably a NDE, but the remembrance is not close to the time of resuscitation.

Doris D's NDE English expanded version 1/14/2008 I can remember floating above the operation theater and listening to the doctors discuss the fact that I was dead anyway and they should try this new technique for the advancement of medicine. At the same time I could feel a pulling sensation and the room filled with a wondrous warm light and as my body drifted towards the light I continued to see the medical team working on my body. The closer I got to the light it felt warm and peaceful and I could hear muffled voice and music.

Ginny B Probable NDE English expanded version 1/14/2008 One night the dots started up again and I found myself out of my body, completely pain free and floating above my body in the corner of my bedroom. I remember thinking that I was going to leave now. I felt glad about that, to leave the pain behind. I didn't want to stay. Just as I was about to set off away from there I saw my mother come into the room. She knelt by my bed and prayed and cried. Her beseeching tears touched me deeply. She prayed that I should be healed. I realized that she really did love me. I guess I'd not been sure of that before that moment. I remember deciding to return and give it a go.

Kolleen's NDE English expanded version 1/14/2008 I remember me going through an orange tunnel accompanied by an entity, it was guiding me. But the feeling of energies going up and down through this tunnel made me worrying. When arrived to the end, I was greeted by, in fact I think they were shades thanking and greeting me. I had the feeling to have already met them before, at one time or another. Then, someone guided me through a very bright corridor (my mind goes blank at this moment) then I find myself in a bath of flames. I should understand something and I didn’t know what, until I told myself that it was not normal to feel so well there. I was not alone, I saw the one who became my husband later one. He told me how to leave. Something happened in me and all at once, the flames burned my body and I called Saint-Pierre for help, with the hope he would open the door for me. That’s what he did after a while, checking that I reached the result he wanted me to reach.

Jennie NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 When I was brought to the emergency room, the staff debated whether I could be saved or not. In the meantime, I was in a state I could not describe. I was floating in complete darkness. I was aware of my surroundings. I felt well-rested, relaxed and happy. I do not know how long I was in that state. Finally I felt something pull me and the next thing I knew, all these people were standing over me. I was asked my name and to spell it. I was totally confused. I had forgotten what had happened to me. They told me that they thought that I had been stung by a bug. I remembered then and began to tell them what drugs I already taken and told me it was too late. They had already fixed me up. I started to feel a burning on my arms. I looked down and saw 3 IVs in one arm and 2 in the other. The doctor tried to explain to me that I was a DOA. I didn't want to believe him. Each of the nurses came in and congratulated me on " defeating death". I went home at about 2 that afternoon. Happy void experience. NDE from respiratory arrest.

Star NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 All of a sudden, everything went "black." Total blackness that I can't even describe, it was so black. I didn't see anything, but I head a very loud "rasping" like sound. I then found myself out on this beautiful field. It was bright, sunshine day. I can't describe the vivid colors and how beautiful it was. I was still shaking. I could not cross the field. For some reason, I knew that I could not. Way across the field ( and I would use "miles" to describe it), there was a beautiful carousel with several beautiful ladies on it. They were all dressed in light pastel colors. Dresses that were "floor-length." Its hard to describe. Light material type of dresses, and they all had "parasols" (sp?- you know, they look like umbrellas, but they're not). One lady got off the carousel and came over to me. She took my hand, and I immediately stopped shaking and I felt GREAT! No words were spoken. NDE associated with severe illness.

Mrs. L NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was 2 years old and fell into a creek. I remember seeing a bright light [cone shaped] and a woman standing at the top of the tunnel of light, she was dressed in white. I looked down and could see my body floating face down in the water. I had on brown pants and white shoes and an over shirt. I thought about many times but never mentioned it until I read about a NDE in a magazine. I had always known about my near drowning, but none of the details. I questioned my mother about it, and she confirmed that she had thought that I was dead when she got me out of the water. I have never been afraid of dying, because of the extreme peace and calm that I associate with the experience. I realize that I was so very young, but the event is a real as if it happened yesterday. The woman seemed to draw me back to her, then she just faded into a cloud like atmosphere. Amazing NDE at age 2!

Edwin NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Left my body. Went to hospital. Was aware of other "spirits" around me. Some were grey in color, others were transparent like myself. I was then "revived" NDE from electrocution and fall.

Sandra S NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I knew there were other beings all over. I could not see them clearly. After a few moments, I started to distinguish my father in law and my youngest brother. They had died the year before two weeks apart. They were approaching me, like if they were floating towards me instead of walking. I was somewhat surprise to see them. I wondered what they were doing there. They did not say anything. My father in law just extended his right hand towards me, and when my hand was almost touching his, I heard a voice that told me in an imperative tone: If you touch him you will certainly died, remember your son Irving, he needs you. You need to go back to be there for him. I did not like to hear that. I was feeling so well, that I did not want to go back. It was so beautiful, and I felt so much at peace! It was like going back to my real home. Encounters with deceased relatives.

Marge NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was surrendering myself to the wonderful peace I was feeling, listening to the doctor and nurses, when they started calling "Lydia, come back" over and over. Then I heard the nurse say "I don't think that's her name". When the doctor asked what my name was, I became very angry because he was treating me and didn't even know my name. So I "ripped" myself out of that loveliness and peace to tell him that my name was Marge. NDE from allergic reaction to contrast dye.

Murray P NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 From Canada. felt a floating in a darkness. A white light appeared to approach. As it neared, it became more intense and whiter. Then I was inside the light. It reminded me of a Swedish globe only much much brighter, almost too bright to see and yet, it wasn't hurtful or unpleasant. On the contrary, I had the feeling of an intense love and acceptance and that everything would be alright. Next I heard a very deep, majestic male voice as What have you done with your life? I saw my life as a panorama while being able to see it in its entirety simultaneously. I didn't feel too good with what I saw. The voice, once again asked, What have you done with your life? This time it sounded more stern and angry. All I could say was, Nothing. NDE from auto accident.

Paul B NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 And it was the first time in my life that I actually experienced the pain of another person, not just "understood" it, or "empathized" with them, but truly felt it as a massive shock wave that assaulted my spirit. I broke the magnetic type pull that had been lifting me upward, and drifted down towards my mother's right arm, and was immediately surprised that she didn't turn to look at me. She and my father, who was standing on her left side, continued to look at my body that was damaged beyond description. I recall being disinterested in my body lying there, and instead, was intensely focused on the grief of my parents. NDE from auto accident.

Steve NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Hit my head on a corner of cupboard door long periods of sleep felt like my head was going to explode went to friends house when I left fell down twice second time saw myself laying in the street was getting farther away from my body went into tunnel the further I got away from my body the more bright the light got. . . .when I was floating above my body the body on the street just seemed like an empty shell. NDE from head injury.

Monty NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 in the beginning I was amazed to see these replays, then I felt a very strong need to get what I figured was a last look at my (beautiful) girlfriend's face--my head only moved as if imbedded in gel--I couldn't move it fast enough and panicked that I might lose consciousness before seeing her one last time. Once I saw her I felt at peace. I was not sad about my dying, not regretful about the end of life, quite blasé. Then the white light came on and I felt I had to make a big choice. NDE from gasoline explosion.

Diane NDE & ADC English expanded version 1/13/2008 When I came back to this floating position above myself, but at an angle I couldn't really see myself, but I could. If you can understand that. Anyway, there were two people or things (spirits I think) with me, one on my left and one on my right. I was told that I could stay or I could go back. I looked down at ""me"", it was kind of fuzzy, and was trying to decide if I wanted to go back, because I sure didn't want to leave this wonderful, peaceful, loving, total accepting, place I was in, but then my mother and sister and my two little girls popped into my head and I knew they would need me...even if it meant that I would suffer most of my life...I was needed, I had to go back, I couldn't leave them without me. So at that very moment I made the decision to go back. And...all of a sudden I am in this dark place falling, falling, faster and faster and felt like I was being squeezed into this little tiny hole until I felt my body again. It was blacker than I have ever seen. It was darker than any night and blacker than any black could be. I almost felt frightened, until I felt my body again, the weight, the pressure. My lungs hurt so bad and I didn't think I was going to make it. All of a sudden I heard this voice yelling at me to ""wake up Diane, you have to wake up!"" Grandmother came to warn her in an ADC while she was having a NDE from gas poisoning.

Rick R NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Then without warning it happened! 'What have you done with your life?'. The voice penetrated my very being! I had no answer! Then to my right I saw what seemed to be like a movie; and I was in it! I saw my mother giving me birth; my childhood and friends! I saw everything from my youth up! I saw everything I had ever done before my eyes! As my life played out before my very eyes I tried to think of good things I had done. I was raised in church and had been very active in church functions; yet as I pondered on this I saw a man in his car that had ran out of gas. I had stopped and given him a lift to a local store about a year ago. I had bought him some gas as he had no money and helped him get on his way! I thought to my self; why am I seeing this? The voice was loud and clear. You took no thought to help this soul and asked nothing in return! These actions are the essence of good! I saw all the people I had hurt as well and was shown how my actions had set in motion the actions of others! I was stunned! I had never thought of my life having an effect on the actions that friends; family; and others I had met would take! I saw the results of all I had done! I was not pleased at all! I looked on until the events came to an end. Indeed I had done so little with my life! I had been selfish and cruel in so many ways! I was truly sorry I had done so little. Then again loud and clear I heard the voice speak again. 'You must return!'. What have you done with your life? This is one amazing account!

Barbara C NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 The first thing I remember was sort of rolling over, then I felt myself being pulled towards the ceiling, backwards. I looked down and saw a person laying on an operating table covered in green drapes. I realized it was me, but didn't feel any remorse at leaving my body. Then I was pulled backwards again only this time at great speed, I was still travelling backwards and was terrified. I reached out to try and grab something to stop myself but there was only blackness. Blackness like I'd never seen before. I don't know how long this went on for, it could have been a few seconds and then again it could have been a few years! I then heard a sound telling me to 'Go Back' . The sound was neither male or female it was a bit like music. The next thing I remember was hearing voices telling me to breathe. There seemed to be a bit of a commotion going on. NDE from surgery complications.

Matt S Probable NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I then found myself in the company of several (3?) spirits, with whom I then had a telepathic conversation........I exclaimed something like "Good, I'm here, I made it." .......The spirits them informed me that I would not be staying, but proceeded to give me several deep insights into my then current life..........almost like a psychic reading..........I did not go down the tunnel, but I saw the outside of it in the near distance..........I saw a tube projecting up at about a 45 degree angle, much like a pipe in the ground..........above it, approx two mouth diameters away were TWO very bright white lights.......these lights pivoted towards a "target soul" ascending the tunnel, and paused for a few seconds while the soul entered the light.........the light would then pivot like a searchlight towards another soul and pause again while the soul entered the light......Both lights were identical and moved similar, but independently......I knew that those were souls entering the light, and I remarked to the spirits near me that I wanted to go there, but I was rebuffed and told that it was not my time yet..........They further told me that I had agreed to perform certain deeds in this life, many of which were still undone. Interesting description of the tubes of light.

Patti D Probable NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Next thing I knew I heard the fluttering of wings by my right ear. Then silence. And I was in a dark cozy place that is "the womb of existence" and at the same time every place. There was no sense of being enclosed, but at the same time I was "in" and "out in the void". No walls, no tunnel. Not blackness like shutting your eyes. It was a warm soft off black color. If I had eyes they would have been open. I was not in my body. That's the best I can do. I "saw" just the black wings like those of an eagle. About six feet in length from the shoulder to the tips. They floated in space with the shoulder end up. One was just in front of the other. They weren't attached to anything. They were just floating there all by themselves. They were to my right. Next my consciousness is back in the office. Probable NDE from reaction to sodium pentathol.

Dr. Thomas J NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 First week of College walking beside a road which ran through the campus. Returning my date to the dorm which was only 50 yards from the college hall. The concrete road had a low gravel soft shoulder. A young man was teaching his girl friend how to drive. She got one of her wheels caught in the gravel and struck me at 50+mph from behind. I never saw it coming. I was propelled 10ft up and 30ft down the road, she also struck a second student before stopping. I left my body and was up above the trees over the accident and could see the whole scene. I was chalked off on the side of the road while they attended the other student. Evidential Veridical Perception.

Moselle NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I recall being rushed to the OR after that it seemed I was rushing through a long passageway which was filled with colors and sound. The sound was a high-pitched yang-ying. It seemed to take ages to get to the end of the tunnel, however, when I did it was so beautiful. I was greeted by three people who told me they were to "help" me over. They were in white in white & handsome, fair it seemed Behind them I could see lovely flowers, rolling hills. NDE complications from child birth.

David B NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I then started to feel my spirit start to raise out of my body. I started floating. As this happened, I all of a sudden got scared, I didn't want to die. At that moment I saw future events that I was going to miss pass quickly before my eyes. I felt a sense of regret, and fear. I cried to God and asked if he would let me live. At that moment, I felt my spirit sink back into my body and attach just above my navel. I was amazed that my spirit attached at that part of my body, I then had this gut feeling that I wasn't going to die and this peace overcame me. My mind's eye then went back to the view of the galaxy but only in reverse. The galaxy was rotating counterclockwise and the stars were distant. NDE from suicide attempt.

Claude B NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 A figure appeared to me, at the time I could only think of it as an angelic form of some kind. I can still picture the being. I do not recall our exchanging any words. I was presented a cup or chalice which the angel/being held in one hand and a crown in the other, a small garland which I imagined was a crown. I understood I had a choice. I recall choosing the cup. This had no particular significance to me at the time. Child NDE at age 5. Contributor is a psychologist.

Mike W NDE 39 English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was propelled towards a tunnel with a small light at the end of it. as I got closer to the light it got brighter and also larger. At the end of the tunnel, and it seemed that one second I was at the beginning of the light and the next I was out in the light like I went from 0 to 100 like that. The place I was in was almost hard to describe. It was a beautiful sunshiny day, and it was a large area of golden long stemmed grass or wheat field with flowers interspaced throughout the place. I was moving over this place and being guided towards a big beautiful tree out in the middle of all this. I got to the tree, and sitting on large rock was my dads dead father. He died when I was 3 or 4 years old. Even though I was seventeen at the time and good size I was sitting on my grandfathers knees. It really felt good to be there with him. All pain and every thing else was gone except for us . He told me that I would have to go Back to my life as there was things that I must do. NDE from car accident.

Lynda C NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I remember seeing a passageway and then I was moving toward an entryway ahead of me. I wasn't actually walking, I was just moving . Then the door opened and out stepped my deceased second husband and my deceased oldest son, I was not afraid, I realized where I was , but was not scared. I have never felt more at ease or serene. Both my husband and my son told me that it was not my time, yet. I didn't want to go back, but not for any other reason, but because I didn't want to feel the pain, that I knew I would feel. Steven (my husband) said that I wouldn't remember the pain. As he held me I knew, for the first time, he was not lying to me. David (my son) said that I had more to do here on Earth . I remember, seeing a bright, brilliant light, like the Aurora Borealis. over the top of the opening they came out of. I got the feeling that if I had gone through the door, I wouldn't be coming back, but I still was not afraid. I have never felt so loved, at peace, or safe. NDE from car accident.

Brian K NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Immediately upon leaving my body there was darkness, then I saw several humans that were floating, they told me not to go to the light. At the end of the tunnel was a man who asked about the life review. I saw spirits, like shining lights of love, and I saw 12 beings that were not human, they had large heads and large eyes, they had no mouths that I saw, or ears. They were not scary, they were not demanding, or judgmental, they were there to help. Above them was a spirit that did communicate what things meant. NDE from a criminal attack.

Conner I NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 As soon as I passed out I instantly saw a white light. At first it had streaks flashing across it like interference on a television screen. Then it settled down and became a very brilliant pure white. Except there was a figure standing there in the lower left hand corner of my field of vision. So it was pure white except for the figure. The figure was distant so it was a very small part of the scene I saw. Mostly it was just pure total whiteness. NDE from heart attack.

Dean T NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I spent a great deal of time in the tunnel, each time I died I was sent to the tunnel, several times I was spoken to by the being of light. He was with my father, like he or she I don't know but it seemed as though they're arm was around my father. Each time someone I knew would say Dean your going back honey. We would hear the defibb warm up and wham I was back in great pain as I slammed into my body after the shock. NDEs from heart attack.

Goldy NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 1. Strangled 2. Intense fear 3. Lost consciousness. 4. Saw myself riding on the back of a large, female cougar. 5. Could feel the muscles of the cougar, its warmth, movement. 6. Could see what I was leaving but not where we were going. 8. Regained consciousness. 8. Very calm & peaceful. Multiple strangulations from mother and cousin.

CP NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 When I was a young teenager of 14 years ( I'm now 44 ) my peers taught me a crazy little trick. We'd take turns hyperventilating and then someone would squeeze us around the ribcage. The idea was to pass out. It worked almost every time. Of course I just had to teach this to my brothers. We gathered in the bedroom and discussed who would go first. I won, so to speak. This time when I passed out I remember standing outside the house by the four lane highway in the ditch of all things! I quietly observed the headlights from the passing automobiles. This lasted several minutes, it seems. Then before you know it I was back in my body waking up from what I thought was just a crazy dream. That was the last time I tried this technique. NDE from childhood prank.

Martine Probable NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Mixed with the music was singing, ethereal voices, not really human, a choir of beautiful liquid voices, the melodies reminiscent of the music I have heard in Jewish temples, or maybe Israeli music - very haunting. I became aware of an amazing Presence, which I felt was God-like, and it overwhelmed everything else. As I neared this Presence, I began to think about my life, everything I had wanted to accomplish, had done, good and bad, but especially the people I loved, my family, certain friends. I suddenly wanted more than anything to go back to them and tell them, show them, how very much I did love them, much more than I had ever realized. As I felt these things, I suddenly was 'plugged in' to God, and this is no exaggeration. I KNEW, on the deepest possible level, that I had never been really connected to God before this. I had been devout in my belief, spiritual, daily prayed and so On, but I had not been totally connected. In one blinding second, I was. This is a very beautifully written experience.

Jack NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 At the end of this tunnel or whirlwind was the brightest white light that I have ever seen. And as I approached it took on human form and appeared as a man dressed in a long white robe that had a gold sash around the waist. He had long flowing hair and the light was coming from where the face should have been. I was shown many things, many of which I was not permitted to bring back with me for some reason. I remember being told that I was dead before my time. Then I was told. 'TELL THEM! TELL THEM! TELL THEM!' three times. NDE due to surgical complication. Remarkably detailed view of his resuscitation efforts.

Bob C NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Starting into this doorway, (which was approx in a wall approx 20 inches deep, I saw 3 ladies, each with "Mona Lisa smiles." one lady was forward of the other 2,and while no words were spoken, I had the distinct impression they knew me. These ladies were in long white robes. I felt warm, and completely at peace. I have never felt so much "love". I remember (still in the doorway,) looking to the left, and seeing another doorway, and suddenly feeling that "beyond that door, is the answer to all questions!". As I started to enter the room with the ladies, the 1st communicated to me that though "this is the right place, it just is not the time for me yet". Her "Mona Lisa smile did not change, but I felt an emotion from her that she hoped I understood I was just "not being allowed to enter yet." Met several guardian beings on the other side.

Lisa R NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 There was darkness but I was in a light and the light was warm and loving and peaceful. It was God's light. I mean that's what he is. My soul was in his soul or light or something like that. It was so wonderful I didn't want to leave but someone said I had to go back . I could hear my mum saying, "Don't you leave us! Lisa don't you leave us!" At times I would come to and open my eyes and see my mum by my side but then I would be back there in God's light. After I finely came back, I was so angry because I wanted to stay because it was so peaceful . NDE from suicide attempt.

Dr. Winborn W Probable NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was in a bed flying over the city of Chattanooga looking down at the ground and the terrain. I could see myself in the bed like I was out of my body and watching. Did not encounter any person or persons. Did not see anything I had not seen before other than flying in the bed. At the time of this experience I was unconscious and my physician was not sure whether I was brain dead or not. Didn't have EEG's in 1952. Doctor (MD) had a probable NDE from polio as a teenager.

Della R NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I remember floating high above my body, so that I could touch the exposed pipes on the ceiling. I was surrounded by a great, ubiquitous light. I heard the nurse and doctor say to my parents, "she won't live through the night,." My mother fell over the table, sobbing. My father, with whom I have always had a close bond, said that he would donate his blood to me directly from a table nearby. This was done and I survived. Later, when I awoke, I tried to tell the nurse, the doctor and my mother what I had experienced. The doctor protested that I could not have heard the conversation for I was unconscious. Child NDE

Tim NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Woke in bed with massive pain, more than I ever dreamed possible...Felt like something pulled me out of bed...Saw and felt a mist and a blackness in a ring around me...Like a hyperspace on the periphery. Frightening NDE from appendix rupture.

Rebecca D NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was in a dark void, I was not scarred, it was like I was a pair of eyes and ears with pure consciousness, it was so real. Just about 2 years ago I realized, after thinking about this event, that I was an adult as I was existing in this void, anyway back to the details. I could not see anything in the distance, just darkness. All of a sudden I heard a child crying. I said "why is that child crying", I moved, or gravitated toward the cry, it got louder and louder, I could see a child lying on the ground, a little girl with candy all over the ground around her and someone bending down to help her, all of a sudden I was in this body, "oh, its me", I remember saying to myself but at the same time I was crying very loud, I was now a heavy body, and I was in pain. Child tripped and had an experience during unconsciousness.

Rory R NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 THE NEXT THING I KNOW IM LAYING ON MY BACK, BUT THERE WAS NO SENSATION OF PAIN (WHICH WAS A RELIEF). EVERYTHING HAD A GLOWING BEIGE LIGHT, NOT THE PURE WHITE LIGHT, BUT A BEIGE ONE. THERE WERE THREE BEINGS AROUND ME. TWO WERE FEMALE AND ONE WAS MALE. THIS IS JUST THE IMPRESSION I HAD. IT WAS MORE LIKE TWO FEMININE ENTITIES AND ONE MASCULINE ONE. ANYWAY THESE ENTITIES WERE WAVING ME AWAY LIKE I WASN'T WANTED. THE NEXT THING I KNOW IM GASPING FOR AIR LOOKING AT A CRYING GUY. ALL THE FEELINGS OF PANIC AND PAIN I HAD WERE REPLACED WITH A FEELING OF CALM. THE NEXT THING I KNOW THE POLICE ARRIVED AND SAVED ME. AND THAT'S MY STORY. AS I SAID I WAS A ARDENT ATHEIST, BUT NOW I KNOW THERE IS A GOD AND I HAVE NO DOUBTS ABOUT IT. IT CHANGED MY LIFE FOREVER, ALMOST AS IF I WASN'T READY, OR I HAVE SOMETHING UNFINISHED TO DO BEFORE I LEAVE THIS WORLD. NDE from criminal attack.

Fred B NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Working alone. Grabbed a water pipe for balance. Got full electric across heart-115vAC. Fell back to get off pipe-don't remember hitting floor. Was floating in a black void, very happy-no pain of any kind. Saw a light at my level, to the left. Swung that way and headed for the light, there was a texture to the light like the sun reflecting off water onto a white wall. As I moved to the light, I could hear a dog howling, got louder as I got closer. All of a sudden the incredible happiness was gone, and I was back in my voltage racked body. the dog howl? Was me! Some primeval survival instinct had kicked in. The sound brought a coworker from 2 rooms away, and got me off the pipe-drill motor connection. I was able to change the dog-howl to the word help. NDE from electrocution.

Nancy T NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was having 10 vertebra fused (as follow-up from auto accident). The surgery should have taken no more than 3 hours - I was in surgery for over 5....as I my heart needed reviving more than once. With all of the back/bone pounding - this bruised my heart. I was in post op - coming to - talking to the patient in the bed next to me - when I couldn't breath. The gal in the bed started screaming for help. I floated out of my body and watched the medical team work on me - then saw lots of white light - then fade to nothingness. NDE from surgery complications.

James F NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I began to experienced the most wonderful sensation that I had ever felt. I was floating through what seemed to be a red tunnel of some sort. At the end of the tunnel was a bright light that did not bother my eyes at all. The light gave me a sense of strength and joy that is indescribable. Once I arrived at the end of the tunnel I saw a black table and seven people all dressed in white clothing standing on the other side of the table. Six to my right and one to my left. I did not recognize any of the people standing before me. However I do remember the table. The table top was made of gold and the table legs were thin, tall and square. On top of the table was a book in front of the person that was directly to my left. I remember wanting to go further towards the light. I had no other thoughts other than wanting to go on towards the light. I know one or two of the people behind the table had said something to me but I can not remember what. NDE from surgery complications.

Cal G Possible NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Suddenly, the environment began to change, and I saw two worlds, duel dimensions. One dimension was merely physical, while the other had visual properties, yet unseen to the people crowding the little room. There were figures, some in motion, some affixed to their original position. The ones in motion seemed very busy, portraying a trace of energy (or heat) as they moved. The only representation they possessed were dark silhouettes that appeared as three-dimensional shadows. I gathered them as celestial beings with no true form. I was fighting a shift in consciousness and was concerned for my mother's feelings. I decided I would find a way back in to the dimension from which I had come. Possible NDE from attempted suicide.

Archie M NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 From Australia I Saw the Light, Travelled towards it automatically and found myself in a beautiful field of Golden Grasses. Noticed several, about 5 or 6, people looking at me and waiting for Me, realized later that these were in fact deceased relatives from Scotland. Was shown a magnificent Gold colored city where universities of learning were operating. Felt a powerful being, God like, at my immediate side. Feels like I spent an hour or so there but was only gone, Dead, for 8 minutes on Earth. I was told to go back and do important work and use my previously wasted life to do good for others. Felt a hard return to my body. NDE due to car accident.

Thomas B NDE 3452 English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was standing on top of the hood of the car but did not sense a wreck. I noticed traffic backed up for miles in each direction. I thought it was odd how I could see the sweat on the bus drivers face 3 blocks away like he was up close. I saw two of my schoolmates on their bike on the far corner watching something in my direction. I waved and shouted to them "hey Chuckie, here I am" but they did not hear or see me. that's when I started to sink. I sank down into the car and awoke still pinned under the dash. I had lost a lot of blood. blood was over an inch deep on the floorboard. at that point I still had eyesight. after I was put on a gurney and on my way to the ambulance, I looked over to the far corner of the intersection just to see if my two friends from school were really there. they were! NDE due to auto accident at age 10.

Dana S NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 From Canada. I FELL STRAIGHT DOWN IN THE SHOWER AND I HIT MY HEAD ON THE SIDE AND ON THE BACK OF MY HEAD. IT FELT SURREAL AT FIRST. I HAD SEEN MYSELF IN THE SHOWER AND MY BOYFRIEND TURNED OF THE SHOWER AND HE WAS PANICKED AND SCARED. HE KEPT CALLING MY NAME AND HE TRIED TO REVIVE ME. WHILE HE WAS DOING ALL THIS I HAD WATCHED HIM AND I THOUGHT 'I'M DYING'. BUT I LOOKED UP AND FELT SO WARM AND I HAD FELT SO LOVED. I DON'T KNOW HOW LONG I WAS UNCONSCIOUS BUT I KNOW I DIDN'T WANT TO COME BACK. WHEN I DID COME BACK, IT WAS BECAUSE MY BOYFRIEND WAS CRYING AND YELLING THAT IT WASN'T MY TIME TO GO. Two NDEs. One due to passing out in shower, another due to criminal attack.

Marcello R NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 Then said to myself "I'm dead" . I don't know how long I laid like that but at one point I found myself floating ...And as I floated upward it was as if I were looking down on myself. I could see me lying face up on the floor. I continued to rise and looking back at my image ..I began to get smaller and smaller until everything went black...I could still feel myself rising, floating upward so I turned my attention the other way and that's when I saw blackness all around me with thousands of little flashes of like .almost flickering kind off, all around me as I started to pick up speed and at this time I felt the most wonderful feeling I had ever felt and to this day have never felt again. I can't describe the feeling all together. But the faster I excelled toward what appeared to be a "Dot" of light at first and then began growing larger and brighter ,I felt filled with JOY! Now I was being bathed by the bright light as I approached it and I seemed as if I was about to pass into or through the light when to my left I heard this feminine and beautiful voice say to me.. "ARE YOU READY ??" NDE due to apparent cardiac and respiratory arrest following drug overdose.

Hera A NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 suddenly I was sucked out of my body like a vacuum and saw the Anesthesiologist calling my doctor who I saw in the parking garage. I saw that I was lying on the operating table, and then my body left the hospital and went into the universe, travelling very fast through space. I landed in a very cloudy place and the people I saw gathering around me were my dead patients that I had seen die when I worked in the ICU. I thought to myself that I surely had died, for these people were dead. Then suddenly I saw my father who had died 6 months prior and he talked to me through my brain and lead me to a tunnel. Before I approached the tunnel I was engulfed in a large ray of light, a light that was so beautiful and comforting and I felt unconditional love. While in the light I had a life review and saw everything I had ever did in my life, every thought, word, deed, action, inaction was shown to me. NDE due to cardiac arrest on operating table. Remarkably detailed NDE.

Charles H NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I LEFT MY BODY SHORTLY AFTER IT HAPPENED, I HUNG ABOVE FOR A BRIEF WHILE WATCHING THEM WORK ON ME, NOT FEELING ANY FEAR OR SADNESS JUST WATCHING, THEN I COULD SEE A LIGHT, IN THE LIGHT I TRAVELED TOWARDS A FIGURE, I NEVER GOT A CLEAR LOOK AT THE FIGURE, BUT I HEARD A VOICE IT SAID ARE YOU READY? IF YOU COME FORWARD, YOU CANT GO BACK, ALTHOUGH IT HAPPENED SO FAST I KNOW I WAS IN NO RUSH TO ANSWER, I LOOKED BACK AND COULD STILL SEE MYSELF LAYING THERE, IT SAID TO ME IF YOU GO BACK YOU WON'T LIKE WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN, BUT I NEED YOU THERE, WHAT I HAVE PLANED FOR YOU HAS NOT BEGUN YET. NDE due to being run over by a truck.

Richard L NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 But I'm still aware! I was very aware. I remember thinking "I should be seeing a tunnel and some light" but I was more like thought in space, completely alone in nothingness. so I waited and waited. Then the reality of what I'd just done hit me." Am I going to be here in this place forever! this abyss! what have I done! The fear was off the charts. We are not supposed to take our own life. I was fully aware of what I had done and the thought of being alone in that nothing forever was unbearable but what could I do? It was too late. Suddenly in the void, I heard a voice. a male voice and He said" Its o.k., It's all right, It's all good." I went from total terror to total peace and acceptance of my life and responsibility. NDE due to attempted suicide by drowning.

Vivian H NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 By the time the friend caught up with me and grabbed me I felt this scream come from my body and I knew -- I had died -- and then all was calm. I felt myself lift out of my body lying on the cold ground and heading upward. It reminded me of toy telescopes with segments that pull out and elongate but this telescoping feeling was me going infinitely upward. It was like tunnel, too, I suppose and it was dark but with a light at the end. The light got bigger and bigger and then I felt as if I'd exploded into the infinite white light. It was peaceful and fine and I was content and beyond words and beyond thought. But then, a thought formed: My parents can't handle another death. I am the 4th of six children and the oldest had been killed in the Vietnam war three years before this. Just that tiny thought or realization was enough to send me hurling back down through the telescope/tunnel and SMACK back into my body and screaming again. The seizures then continued. NDE due to seizures as a result of alcohol and drugs at age 17.

Ben J NDE English expanded version 1/13/2008 I was at home when my chest started to hurt I knew that it was a heart attack, I had one in January of 2007 now it is December 01 of 2007, they rush me to the hospital in Texas, They try to stabilize me there, then they took me to San Antonio TX to a heart hospital, I don't remember getting to the hospital. that where I had the out body experience, and that where I died on the operating table and I saw the white light. The out of body experience, I was my wife she is 64 year old with gray hair, but when I saw her she had black hair, the color it was when we met. Then I saw the real bright light in a tunnel with my dad coat, it look like dad coat. It's felt like I was floating. then they shock me back to life. My experience was over, I like the experience. It was so calm and so peaceful. NDE due to heart attack. Happened about five weeks prior to sharing with us.

Andrei NDE English expanded version 1/12/2008 From Uzbekistan, Original in Russian Translated to English by Ivanda. Somehow suddenly I started feeling incredibly peaceful. I was watching the children swimming above. And then for some reason I got a feeling that I am falling through the tiles into some kind of tunnel and the water of the pool was moving away farther and farther. I could still see the swimming children but they were moving away from me. Finally I moved so far down from the pool that I found myself in complete darkness. And then suddenly there was bright light from all sides. I looked around surprised. And I am observing the pool and the group from above. I looked at myself with a surprise. I understood that I cannot fly; however, I felt as if I could go anywhere at all. And nothing would stop me. I did not have a body, I was invisible. Also I did not feel my arms, I did not have them. I was nothing, but I could see and understand everything. I looked around… Somehow if I wanted to I could look at several points at the same time. I looked around and I could see everything that was going on with the group. I would not say that I was warm or was feeling good, I felt nothing. It was simply a wonderful feeling of freedom. I could be where I wanted to be and see what I wanted to see. I also knew that I could not affect any physical things. It simply was knowledge. Child drowning NDE age 3.

Thomas M NDE English expanded version 1/12/2008 On the morning of my experience the canals were iced over and the water level had been lowered so that there was a gap between the ice and the water. I fell through the ice into a fast moving current heading in to the turbines. I tried to stop myself by grabbing the underside of the ice but the current was too strong and I couldn’t stop from tumbling along. When my clothes got heavier and heavier I struggled to hold my breath and keep my head above water. I didn’t feel the cold until I couldn’t hold my breath any longer and took a huge gulp of water. I recall even today how it felt when that freezing water it hit my lungs. It was around this point that my NDE took place. I remember looking up at the sky through the ice and seeing ME in the air above the canal looking down and following along with my shadow as I tumbled along under the ice. The feelings were very strong at this point and as the fear passed I felt totally at ease and at peace as if watching events unfold as in a movie. Child drowning NDE age 11.

Stéphane B Possible NDE English expanded version 1/10/2008 From France, Translated to English by Jean Peter. I saw myself in a heavenly landscape, there was clay ground, a beautiful blue sky, grass, slight and tepid breeze, there was an olive tree next to me. My grandfather, dead since 1988, was sitting there, quietly playing the lute. He told me, sit down there dear Kiki, you’ll see we’re all right there. I asked him where we were, he answered that I knew it, I was in Heaven but I should not worry. I felt huge pleasure emotion pervade me, I felt happy and free and about to cry for joy. I had tears in my eyes for so much beauty and for seeing my Grandfather. Then, deceased people came to visit me and they called my name, saying that I should come because you felt good there and I belonged there. I belonged among them, they outstretched their arms towards me. I saw dozens of dead family members. There were other people I did not know but who also outstretched their arms to me. I felt like I would cry for joy, saying to myself that death was so beautiful. I wanted to die now, driven by joy and happiness. Pain had disappeared, I felt no pain at all then. Possible NDE but he didn't actually die. At the very least this is NDE-Like.

Francesco D Possible NDE English expanded version 1/10/2008 From Italy, Translated to English by Amy. I remember that as I was losing my breath I said: “Here it is. I am dying. This is what it’s like to die.” It seems that the words came from my mouth, but my daughters later told me they heard nothing of the sort. As I said those words I felt that someone else next to me finished my thought out loud. I was outside of my body, like a body double, but I couldn’t see, yet I was still fully conscious. In fact at the same time that I was talking I found myself in a black void. It wasn’t a room or a tunnel, it was just the Void. But I didn’t have time to be concerned about that because I immediately felt that I was flying faster and faster upwards into the most beautiful of beatitudes, and I saw an immense landscape made of light. I want to explain myself as best I can. What I saw was not “objects” illuminated by light but the things themselves in an immense atmosphere, lofty, these things were themselves Light, or rather made of light. They weren’t sources of light, they were light. I can’t explain it any better than that and I must repeat that the whole experience leaves me rather speechless, without adequate words. Possible NDE from coughing spasm.

Gülden NDE English expanded version 1/10/2008 From Turkey, Translated to English by Aylin & Ibrahim I felt raising up above my bed, taking direction to a white, very bright light. Meantime, I saw my uncle, who died one month ago, while passing me he said “not yet”. I was surprised how I understood him without spoken words, but I felt very peaceful. Later a lady came to me, if I see her now, I would recognize her. She took me to a wonderful place with mountains and said that this was the place of my life. The place we went was beautiful, but I said to her that this place is not my life’s place. Then we came to a sea shore with a little village and she said again that this place was my life, but I don’t know this place and I said to her that this is not the place of my life. After we travelled some more very beautiful places she said that I was not ready to stay in these places and asked me what I remember about my life. This is a hot one; A Muslim NDE from Turkey.

Nicole C NDE English expanded version 1/10/2008 If I remember correctly I was looking through an invisible tunnel, not like a train tunnel and there was not bright light but more like my side vision was blurred but not relevant. Hard to explain. NDE from criminal attack.

Doina Probable NDE English expanded version 1/7/2008 From Romania, Translated to English by Angela. I was in a state of peace and I felt so loved unlike ever in my whole life, but not that I didn’t experience love in my life, it was just something different that cannot be explained in words. But I was sent back exactly in the moment when I was feeling so happy, those voices which were not a human language (like Romanian, English or something like this) but a communication, I was pushed back gently and with the same love, while having flashes of my son, mother and father (who were still alive). I saw my husband in the corner of a room weeping as he was waiting for me and this was the first image I had when I opened my eyes after half an hour from the operation. Probable NDE during surgery.

Mother-in-Law NDE English expanded version 1/10/2008 From Mexico, Translated to English by Eva. Hours later, my mother-in-law experienced a strong hemorrhaging connected to the delivery. At some point my mother-in-law started to see a path strewn with flowers and light. At the end of the path she saw an elderly lady. My mother-in-law reached the elderly lady, who told her to go back; that she should see her family who were suffering for her. The elderly lady showed my mother-in-law her husband and her small children around the bed and other persons. All were crying and praying for my mother-in-law, for they thought she was dying. My mother-in-law saw herself stretched out on the bed; she knew it was she (there). In that moment, she became conscious that she was out of her body. The answer of my mother-in-law to the elderly lady was that she wanted to go with her, because she felt such peace and tranquility. Second hand NDE as related by Jorge.

Wendi NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 After leaving my body I was pulled into a void or darkness. In the distance I saw a white, ball of light come close and closer to me. I couldn't really make out what it was until in got closer that I could tell it was a form of human. Finally, I realized who it was. It was a deceased friend of mine who had committed suicide the previous year. I was very close to this person in life, we went to High School together and he was a support to me in life as well as in death. He told me that I needed to return there was a strong sense of needing to return. When I asked Why he told me my life had a meaning and a purpose. It wasn't my time yet. I did return. NDE from heart attack.

Linda K Probable NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 Oh Lord! After something like that you have to investigate everything that your life is about. Going from believing in nothing to not being sure what happened to you, to learning to believe in something and the eternal investigation of what that something is. Thank God I had that bowel obstruction! Inspirational probable NDE from post-operative complication. Not clear imminent life-threaten event. She was a heavy alcoholic and completely changed her life around.

Tara B NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 I wanted to go back to the peace and beauty. I felt a shock and I was back in the blue, misty expanse....but I felt and saw a presence there. there were three figures there seeming to be waiting for me. I spoke with them and they said I had to decide if I was done with my task. I "saw parts of my life race through my mind...and saw I was not meeting my goals. they told me I picked this life as a test and to choose to return to my body or get another body, but the goal was to be the same. these three figures were also blue and wore darker blue robes. they were blond and tall and radiated love and compassion. almost an emotional hug was given to me. I felt they were my guardian angels. I decided to go back and it happened instantaneously. Attempted Suicide.

James S NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 It is a feeling of Perfect love and trust a feeling so strong that it could be felt so far away that traveling at supersonic speeds it would take half an hour to get there. The closer it came the stronger the feeling until this immense feeling totally engulfed you in ecstasy so intense as to be unimaginable( for lack of better words) came and lifted me by my elbows above the darkness and away we go me being supported by two beings that felt better than a mothers breast to a newborn. I looked up at my benefactors and found that they were dressed in Black gowns and had a screen over there faces which if you looked closely at had a mirror like substance that reflected you own image back at you. they were giving me reassurances through feelings and music that was like talking only better than language. there is nothing to learn you can understand totally. NDE from Heart Attack.

Rica S NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 Oh, yes. What you answer for when you die is not what the Preachers preach. It is "What have you done to help your fellow man". Attempted Suicide.

Toni M NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 Caution, Disturbing Content - Mature Readers Only! ALL I REMEMBER WAS A BEAUTIFUL WHITE BRIGHT LIGHT, AND THE OVERWHELMING FEELING OF LOVE AND ACCEPTANCE. I FELT LIKE THIS WAS THE BEST FEELING I COULD EVER HAVE ASKED FOR. I HAVE NEVER FELT THAT KIND OF LOVE BEFORE OR SINCE. I KNEW THERE WAS SOME ONE/ THING THERE WITH ME. THIS PERSON/THING TURNED OUT TO BE A HUGE HAND RAISED UP AS IF TO WARN ME TO STOP. THE HAND WAS ILLUMINATED AND WHITER THAN THE SURROUNDING WHITENESS. I HEARD A VOICE COMING FROM THE DIRECTION OF THE HAND AND IT SAID "GO BACK ITS NOT YOUR TIME" Teenage suicide attempt. This one made me cry it is so sad, and it really made me angry too.

Kimberly HA NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 I flew up very fast. I was literally flying through outer space. I passed literal planets. I wasn't sure where I was going, but I knew the way. I was aware of someone following behind me, but I didn't look back at them. They felt familiar. It was wonderful to move without effort. I arrived at my destination pretty quickly. I was in a rectangular room. It was white, almost as if it were made of light. A man came through a door at the far end of the room to meet me. We were each like silhouettes inside of impossibly bright lights. I couldn't exactly see features on the man, but somehow I knew that he was male and older. He seemed vaguely familiar. He asked me to wait there and he left through the same door. After a moment he returned and said, ""You have to go back. NDE from Hypocalcaemia and seizures.

Ellen K NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 Towards the end of this dilemma I all of a sudden was sitting in a room that had a window but not a window that looked outside. It was a big window that looked into a big room that had a long desk or counter. On the other side of the room was a hospital bed with me in it. but I swear I convinced myself it was a manikin dressed with my long blond hair to look like me. "They" even put tubes in this manikin. I got angry because I didn't want my mother to see this. I thought it was an awful joke. The more I looked I had to turn away. Post operative complication. Respiratory failure. Felt pulled toward abyss. Second experience described had no clear iminent life-threaten event and may be ICU psychosis.

Richard B NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 Shortly after flight began- I remember the pain going away- a feeling of peace came over me, and I remember "leaving" my body, and starting "thru" a tunnel of multicolored lights, I was suddenly very happy, calm, comfortable, and happy in the knowledge that I was going "into" heaven. Just before I reached the end of the tunnel, I was stopped by the voice of my father (who had been dead 5 years at the time) telling me I must go back, that my mother needed me (for what I don't know) I replied that I didn't want to go "back", but my father's voice insisted.........the next thing that happened was I was looking down on my body in the helicopter- as the attendant worked on my body, trying to "save" my life. NDE from motorcycle accident.

Anna De R NDE English expanded version 1/4/2008 From Italy, Original in Italian, translated by Amy I exited my body and saw my relatives around my lifeless body. There was so much white light everywhere and it emanated from every point, strong but not hurtful. So much joy, it was almost uncontrollable, and I didn't want to return to my body which I knew was in a lot of pain. Then something insisted that I must go back and I began to feel the pain from my feet up. NDE from embolism.

John C NDE 149 English expanded version 1/3/2008 I was floating above my body in the operating room and saw the doctors working to revive me. I then left the operating room and saw my mother and my aunt in the waiting room crying. Next I was in a tunnel or hallway that was dark as I began to walk toward the light at one end I began experiencing an indescribable sense of Joy and peace as I got closer to the light. When I got nearer the light I was nearly blinded by its brightness but still wanted to get closer to walk into it further. Then I heard a voice telling me that I had to go back I could not be hear yet. I didn't want to go back and hesitated because I didn't want to leave. I felt so much Joy, Love and Peace completely void of fear, doubt and all sense of negative human feelings and emotions. I wanted to keep feeling that way and had a sense that it was just the beginning of forever and there was more to experience. But, the voice spoke to me again (it was the most incredible voice and I wanted to see whose it was) telling me again to go back. Heart stopped during surgery.

Diana P Probable NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I feared most of all that I was going to hell. My flesh was my only hope on still being able to really give my life to Jesus, now it was to late. I thought like a child, innocent and pure. I couldn't make up excuses on why I was going to Hell. I couldn't lie. Then I started to see through the walls I seen through the pillow with both eyes "still thinking physical". I seen this small black image hovering over the pillow looking straight into my eyes it kept looking in a eager and greedy way and I could hear what it was thinking. It was waiting for me to leave my body. This figure reminded me of a half human and frog being it stood like a frog Its face was mutilated. Its eyes were so black you fell into them as you looked into them. I screamed at it I don't belong to you I belong to God! I belong to Jesus!! I finally realized I was dead. I started to cry but I felt no tears roll down my face. I just kept crying out I belong to you God I belong to you Jesus! There was no response. My life passed by me as I laid there I thought of all the times I sinned and all the times I was good which were very few. I kept repeating these words "I don't want to die". Frightening, yet ultimately liberating. Probable NDE from heart attack.

Helen PB NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Australia My NDE was pleasant. The staff rushed me into surgery. My NDE consisted of rushing very fast through a dark tunnel. I couldn't see the walls but felt I was bouncing off them rushing fast. I was not in my body but it felt like it was my eyes or my vision (my life force) racing through this tunnel. There was no language, no barriers, my life and who loved me or hated me disappeared it was just my life force holding on and racing somewhere. I felt like I was being pulled back and slowed. There were many lights up ahead. Bluish with brightness around each one. There was a definite boundary between them and me. They loved me absolutely and completely they accepted me, knowing all the good and bad. they knew everything about me. They wanted me to come. I felt total utter protection and love - for a short while. There were no words exchanged I just knew. I wanted to go with them. despite the fact I am a devoted mother nothing else seemed to exist just my life force and these other life forces. NDE from ruptured ectopic pregnancy.

Demi M NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I don't remember hearing anything, or seeing a light or anything like that. I was really feeling great. I wasn't afraid. I was just thinking how cool it was watching my body bounce when I was shocked. NDE from attempted suicide.

Francis R NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Canada I was ordered to return and I didn't want to! I wanted to stay for the first time in my life I was happy. I haven't been so since and nothing has changed this fact. Seizures. Brief description. Met Grandmother.

Ellis B Possible NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I was sitting on my couch and my breathing was cut off. I was staring at my hand, and I saw myself draw away from my body. Then, something or someone 'pushed' me back into the world. I stood up quickly because I was startled by the whole thing. Perceived he stopped breathing while sitting. Not clear this really happened.

James G NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 Light was total Love Peace and the Power from it was awesome and unexplainable the power of millions of atomic explosions would not even come close to the power. Surgery related. Organ failure. Saw light. Tunnel. Met deceased acquaintance.

Brenda E NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I also could "hear" something, although I wasn't registering what it was. Let me state that I was controlling my movements. I don't know what was making me active, I just was. I started noticing that I was bobbing up and down in this funnel. I get more closer to the top and then bob down toward the middle. Eventually, I began to stay close to the top of the funnel. I was aware of drifting around the side of the funnel, and now it was continual. I wasn't stationary any longer. I just kept drifting around and around the side of the funnel, and then I began to slow down. I could hear muffled sounds here, and I slowly kept drifting around until I slowly drifted to a halt. Head injury. Into 'nothingness'. Felt in 'funnel'.

Angela K NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I first told him that I wanted to go to the church, the church that was being built. I said it wasn't finished yet. After questioning me some more I told him that two angels held my arms and took me up into the sky. I told him that there were people building a church out of gold bricks and that they were waving at me. I turned and saw two thrones with two beings sitting in them. Their faces were clouded but one of them told me that "it wasn't my time yet. I insisted that I wanted to stay and he told me that I had to go back to my mom and dad. Then I told him that I saw a little girl( which was me) and then it was over. I apparently went back into my body. I remember all of these details to this day. Child NDE from drowning.

Decembra B NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 Everything went black and I could see images in the distance. At that time I referred to them as bubbles that would appear before me one at a time then zip away and another would appear. I saw images of myself with my mother, family and friends. I don't know why but suddenly I began to think of my younger brother and I knew he would need me. I felt as if I had to make a choice to continue with this or to go back home. At that moment I decided to fight my way back to the top of the water, I could see a bright light in the distance but I wasn't sure if that was the sun reflecting off of the water or what it was. Once I got to the shore I was exhausted, I went home and slept until the next day. Child NDE from drowning.

Patrica M NDE 168 English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Canada That night I went home. I somehow arrived home to be with and watch my family, but they didn't know I was there. I sat in the living room and watched them with their gifts. I was peaceful in that place. My boys are 16, 8 and 11/2 years old and I felt good then, as I always did in real life, about their ability to love and care for each other. But I also knew that my job wasn't done. I knew I had to go back to the hospital. NDE from septic shock.

Pluma S NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 I rose up above my body and then sped away. I was in a dark tunnel, flying very fast. I heard screaming and laughing like on a roller coaster and then screaming and crying--- then the feeling of falling and falling. There was painful screaming like torture... Then --ZOOM-- I was back above my body, looking down, watching the guy perform CPR on me. Then I snapped back into my body and I was sooooo frightened and soooo sick... It was real. Frightening NDE from drug overdose.

Destri B Probable NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Canada I was in a third person stat I was looking down onto the operating table with my grandma holding my hand who I have never seen in my life except pictures. At age 1 fell and hit head. OBE to ER and waiting room. Not sure he had imminent life-threatening event at time of experience.

John P NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008THE LADY SAID THAT ERIC WAS GOING WITH HER AND FOR ME TO GO THROUGH THOSE DOORS AND POINTED TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM. AFTER MY RELEASE FROM THE HOSPITAL I WAS TOLD THE ERIC HAD DIED IN THE WRECK. MY THOUGHTS WERE "NO BECAUSE I HAD TALKED TO HIM AND THE LADY". LATER A FRIEND OF MINE AND I WENT BY ERIC'S HOUSE TO EXPRESS MY CONDOLENCES. WHEN WE WALKED INTO THE HOUSE I NOTICED A PICTURE OF THE LADY THAT WAS WITH ERIC AND ASKED WHO SHE WAS. I WAS TOLD THAT SHE WAS ERIC'S GRAND MOTHER THAT HAD DIED SEVERAL YEARS AGO. NDE from car accident. Is it possible that taking Eric to Kansas is a reference to reincarnation?

Selly Fear Death Experience English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Italy, Original in Italian, translated by Amy I was on a motor scooter and all of a sudden a car appeared in front of us. I was sitting behind, on the back seat. I was catapulted over the car but in that moment everything slowed down and I saw my body flying. I thought of how my family would react if I died and that I needed to do something to save my life. There was only the void but at the same time it was as though someone was holding me. Then everything went back to normal, back to reality and I found myself on the ground, unharmed. Left body from fear of imminent death.

Eleonora Probable NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Italy, Original in Italian, translated by Barbara I was in a tunnel with a light in the bottom. I begun to move fast in the tunnel toward the light. In the light I founded all the persons that I have known in my several past existences, I saw this like an old photo group, all the persons are happy to seeing me. I was watching the persons and suddenly to my left has approached an half age man with beard that asked me, in authoritarian tone, why I were here. I answered that I didn’t know why I were here. He said to me that it was not my moment and I had to go back. I answered that I didn’t want to go back, I was happy in that moment and I wanted to stay here. He accompanied me far away of the group and then my short life passed in front of me. I have feel all the pain I caused to my parents with my whim as a child. Then the man has said to me that I must return because persons needed me. Probable NDE from Nurse. She may have stopped breathing or temporarily smothered herself in her blankets, but the experiences has the signature NDE elements.

Matthew T NDE English expanded version 1/3/2008 From Germany, Original in German, translated by Amy I ended up in the hospital with severe bleeding in my esophagus which needed to be operated on. I lost a lot of blood and my HV values were 6,2, where 17-21 is the norm. One night, I don't know which one, I saw myself floating in a very intense yet peaceful light and in that moment I had the feeling of complete peace, and absolute freedom in my soul. It was a sensation that is very difficult to describe... but it was very beautiful and ever since that moment I no longer fear death. NDE from blood loss.

Susan P NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 Then, it's like I saw nothing but blackness and I could hear echoes of their voices. I didn't feel afraid though, I felt fine and at peace but couldn't figure out why. Nothing made much sense to me but I didn't feel any pain or fear, also I could hear someone praying over me. I saw no light in this experience, just a black tunnel. Then they had revived me and I was ok. I know this doesn't make any sense but this is what happened. And I'm not even sure I was clinically dead to be honest, I thought I passed out. I never got a real answer, I was just told that they almost lost me and that I was very lucky. NDE from auto accident.

G. Bryan B NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 major increase in my respect for life, reawakening of the spiritual facet(s) of my personality -- a desire to reciprocate in sharing the love that I've felt and have been shown. NDEs from several accidents.

Karen B NDE 187 English expanded version 1/2/2008 Next thing I remember I was in a dark tunnel with a light at the end. I was compelled to go to the light. When I came into the light they're was a being of light. It was the most peaceful feeling I have ever felt. More peaceful than I can put into words. The being told me I was HOME but I needed to go back because he had some work for me to do. He said I would not understand the meaning of the work until I went back. He showed me what it was like to have a peaceful world and that we can attain that peaceful world if we have faith and help one another. He said I would come back here and help with this work. In time I would remember who I really am and what my purpose is on earth. After my work was complete I would come back home. I agreed to come back and help. It has not been easy to come back to this world and all it's pain and suffering. In fact, it was a very painful experience to come back. It was like a cruising feeling or of an awareness of feeling the material plane. NDE from birth complications.

JC S NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 I hovered over my body looking down at myself. After realizing I was out of my body, I became about five years old and floated straight up to heaven, where I walked on huge red roses that gave off an incredible scent. There was Jesus standing there about 100 feet tall, with his right arm extended. He was glowing, with long brown hair, copper skin, and a long white robe. The feeling of love and being home was awesome. I reached up and put my hand in his. We spoke with our minds and he gave me a guided of heaven. The colors were awesome, peace, love, and beauty. As we walked, I turned to look back for my grandmother, and my dog Rusty, who I did not see. As I turned to look forward there was sheer curtain, with people standing there as far as far as the eye could see. Then I heard God say, you have to go back. I begged him to please let me stay, but he repeated, you have to go back. NDE from suicide attempt.

Steven R Probable NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 I was surrounded instantaneously, by 6 or 7 "Entities",( maybe Angels,) as I was in the middle of them, all of us in a cloudy mist like fog or clouds, floating in the air, in a grayish-brilliant LIGHT. They were in white robes, but I couldn't see their faces or their feet. None of us were touching ground, there was none. I realized they all knew me; who I was and everything about me. I had an overwhelming sense of Great LOVE and Understanding, with no judgment. I was more calm than I had ever been, Peaceful to the maximum. Everything that happened there was INSTANTANEOUS, not slow like here on Earth. We exchanged all information between each other, not with words but by "mental-telepathy". I asked a lot of questions, they gave me a lot of answers. After these many years, I don't remember most of them, but the last few are unforgettable. They asked me if I wanted to stay with them or if I wanted to come back to Earth? Because everything there was so overwhelmingly wonderful and beautiful, I asked to stay with them. Probable NDE because it is unclear when the actual experience happened.

Margaret B NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 There was all this bright light...and then there was my Grandmother. Suddenly we were at this meadow type place, and toward the distance there were trees and people...lots of people. Near to us was a large flat boulder type rocky place(?), and there was a small creek running past it and beyond where we stood. There were several of my relatives there also...and we had much conversation about things in my life...and that somehow I wasn't doing something I needed to do. I had all this "happy peace" and wanted to stay there, but when I said so...they began telling me that I needed to go back. I wasn't done. My Grandfather (weirdly my mothers father who died when I was a baby in another country) told me quite gently that I had to cross the creek and finish my work. NDE from seizure.

Heather S NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 Then there was a instant calm, I looked up and there was this light that looked almost like I was looking down a wave of surf or a "tunnel" I saw at the end what look to be a beach, grass, and a man standing there I could hear him tell me that I wasn't supposed to be there yet. He didn't talk, but I knew what he was saying. At the same time I could also see the pool, like I was above it about 20 feet or so looking straight down at myself. Then I felt my self going through the "tunnel" but then I heard my brother's voice and I was "snapped back" into by body. Pool Accident as a child.

Dan Z NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 I remember "seeing" the two bodies next to mine mold themselves into the dashboard as if it were made of clay. My body was there too; but, I don't remember seeing it. While I was "up and out" I felt no pain, no fear, no emotion; these being human feelings I can only conclude that I was something else. Then, as if a rubber band pulled me back to my body, I woke to see the front of my vehicle inches from the windshield. I turned and saw my friends moving. Beginnings of a NDE during auto accident.

Sara D NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 CAUTION - DISTURBING, GRAPHIC & VIOLENT And out of this mist I could just see a slightly dirty, used medieval-style white pavilion. A man stepped out, saw me, and ducked back in, saying that I was here. He wore tunic, hose, boots & cloak, with old Celtic or Viking style jewelry. His hair was below shoulder length, black, held back in a sort of half-ponytail. I went in, found another dressed similarly. The first was in greens, blues & browns. The one inside was more in reds. His jewelry was heavier, of the same style, & gold. He also wore some sort of gold band holding his black hair back. There was a table, 2 or 3 chairs, & some chests in the tent. He was looking at papers on the table. I asked him who he was, & he said that he was my father. I disagreed, violently, because of who was killing me "down below." He explained that he was my eternal father (the word translated, because I knew he wasn't speaking English, though I could understand him, to more parent than gender-specific). NDE from criminal attack from biological father.

Derry B NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 Everything in this garden had an overall whiteness and brightness about it. I was seeing the bright green of the plants. I could see the water, and a bright glow surrounded it & the burbling of the water had a musical sound to it, this stream of water fairly sang! The water was so sparkling clear! I remember wanting to bend over and take a drink from the stream that was running through this garden we were walking thru. When I tried to scoop up water with my hands the water ran through my hands, literally, and it wasn't wet! Jesus stopped walking and looked at me while I was bent over trying to drink this water. I could feel his eyes on me. My thirst for this water even though I wasn't able to put it to my lips and drink it was gone at that moment! I can't describe the sensation I felt when the water was running through my hands, but I did feel something. I felt this overwhelming desire to experience everything about this garden. NDE with Jesus.

Astrid Probable NDE English expanded version 1/2/2008 From Mexico. Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva I saw myself and started to float, arriving at a sort of anteroom, where there were many people. As I entered, I noticed there were, among the people, persons that I knew, including family members who had already died. When these [family members] saw me, they only turned and I felt they welcomed me although they did not smile. I only saw them looking at me. I kept floating and I arrived at a beautiful spot all covered in flowers, like a rainbow, beautiful, and [I felt] a sensation of indescribable peace. I stayed a few moments, contemplating the horizon of that place when I suddenly found myself arriving at a huge door. I wanted to cross through, but at that moment, when I wanted to enter, I heard a voice that told me: "Return. It is not your moment." Probable NDE with all the NDE elements. Not enough information to determine if she actually died or was unconscious.

Rich B NDE English expanded version 12/31/2007 I came to later back in my bed angry that I had been so close and had been saved. There was still a sense of connection with that wonderful place I had just been and I took a risk and initiated a reconnection. This time I was challenged to make an accounting of myself before I could proceed. I was defiant and angry and only wanted oblivion. In spite of this I was then given a choice of what my future existence would be. I chose to return and complete any unfinished business I still had with those dependent on me (my family mostly). As this was considered a worthwhile task I was guided toward the light by one of the feathery entities that were active around the light. Some sort of healing process then took place and I returned to my body feeling both wonderful and sad at having to let go of that love and acceptance in the light. NDE from surgery complications.

Burnie A NDE English expanded version 12/31/2007 WHEN I WAS UNCONSIOUS I FELT LIKE I WAS WATCHING A PLAY, I WAS TRAVELING TO DIFFERENT PLACES, SOME FEILDS, RIVERBEDS, MY HOME. NDE from suicide attempt.

Henrietta N Probable NDE English expanded version 12/31/2007 I saw the Son of the Living God, Jesus Christ, Blessed Virgin Mother, My parents, and the Doctor's wife who operated on me the conversation went as this. Jesus said to me: My little one, I will send a son to you in My time. I will also send the Doctor a young lady to help him with his 4 children. And that I must return back to earth to take care the 3 children He has given me. My mom and dad hugged and kiss me. They also talked to me too. Works of missing one another was express. The doctors wife, gave a message to the Doctor her earthly husband, and told me to tell him how much she misses him and loves him and misses her children. No experience, but from her answers this is a probable NDE from surgery complications.

Sam B Probable NDE English expanded version 12/31/2007 From UK That's when I was the tunnel. I was my self lying on my back as though I was standing along side my body .as I lay there looking up into the light it was a CALM feeling ..no fear what so ever just calm and an understanding of what was happening .And as I stood there I could see my self slowly rising up staring right into the light. wow I can see it just like yesterday !!! Probable NDE from an illness.

James B NDE English expanded version 12/31/2007 I remember being drawn toward a warm and lighted place, and thoughts and ideas were being imparted to me as though people were talking to me, yet there were no faces. I felt safe and secure as I progressed toward the light~ then, as though I was being yanked back on a bungee cord, I was pulled backwards into total darkness, and I knew that I was scared, naked, and cold. I ran, but I did not know what I was running from. I ran off the end of a cliff or precipice of some sort, and as I fell it became more light and I began to develop panoramic eyesight like a raptor. As I fell further, I finally took flight, and I saw far below me the body of a Native American woman lying face down in the dirt. I flew down to her, rolled her over, and a great white bird rose out of her body and flew away, and I then went to ashes, much like the Phoenix. NDE from a car accident. Experiencer has a PhD in Philosophy & Religion.

David R NDE 215 English expanded version 12/31/2007 There is not much to tell really. I was in an open box, enveloped in darkness while still able to see around me, faced with a choice of going towards multiple lights in front of me or staying where I was. I chose to stay here because I believed that whoever I was in contact with was telling me to go back because I was needed in this lifetime. I believe that I talked with the highest plane of consciousness that any human could ever hope to attain and spoke with many different people from the past who were attempting to tell me what I needed to know to finish my job here on earth. NDE from heart attack.

Walter G NDE English expanded version 12/29/2007 From Italy, Original in Italian Translated into English by Amy I realized then that I was dead. But that didn’t bother me. Slowly but surely the meaning of the physical world became irrelevant. And it was as if I was forgetting who I was, who I had been. In an instant something happened. I saw myself in my mother’s womb two months before my birth, I had a desire to eat fruit, I remember very well my life review, it went on until my death, aromas, perfumes, sensations, forgotten memories, when I was suckling, everything in a short moment. It seems that in that state time does not exist. I was definitely in another spiritual dimension. NDE from lightening.

Charlene P NDE English expanded version 12/28/2007 I was in the ICU, and I could feel myself slipping from consciousness. I recall there were at least six people standing around me. The next thing I recall is that I was above myself watching them work on me. I recall feeling so at peace. My direction was quickly drawn away from what they were doing to my body, to a longing feeling and a light. It was so overwhelming and I felt this love that I remembered but never felt here. I was drawn toward it, feeling so much love and acceptance. It was bright, but it did not hurt. I felt I was actually part of it. I knew whatever I wanted to know, although I cannot remember it now. I seen others there, that I knew and knew me, but I do not know how I knew them or they knew me. I was told by telepathy that I am done here if I want to be done here or I could return. It seemed like I was there for days and days, like in some sort of "holding room". The feeling I got was that they were waiting for my decision. NDE due to post-surgical complications.

Cindy S NDE English expanded version 12/28/2007 All that I remember because I was so young is seeing my daddy on the ground holding me in his arms, it was like I was standing above him watching. I do know from my parents that I was run over by my mothers car, I feel out after knocking the car in reverse, she had gone in the house to take some groceries in before we had to go pick up my brother and sister at the movies. I know that after the car ran over me I had tire marks across my head and back. I was totally blind in both eyes and when my parents went the hospital the next morning to take me to UAB. hospital I was riding down the hallway on a tricycle, totally blind. the doctors at UAB. told my parents I would never see again, they even used me as a case study, but after 2 weeks by some miracle I got the sight back in my right eye, the doctors could not explain it. the accident also left a scar on my brain. NDE at age 2 due to car running over her, including her head.

Kitty W NDE English expanded version 12/28/2007 I had left the Hospital through the ceiling and found myself in an indescribable place of light and mist and beautiful sound...I felt warmth, love, the blood in my veins turning to warm honey and a sense of Peace and Belonging beyond description. Next, I found myself lying on my back in sweet smelling fresh grass beside a pond, surrounded by indescribable flowers and foliage. There was a small water fall and swans there. After awhile I noticed a man nearby with silver hair and incandescent skin. He appeared to be glowing, but other than that, he looked normal. I did not recognize him, but felt we were old friends. We talked about a time when we were in Kansas in the 1850's and laughed about my, 'spectacles' He told me I couldn't stay there....I was just beginning my Path. He said he would come to me in the future on Earth when the time was right and he would have "what I needed"... NDE due to allergic reaction.

Hanne B NDE English expanded version 12/28/2007 From Malta The 'scene' disappeared as I was zooming out and UP, the rooftops and chimneys went out of sight, and the next 'thing' I remember, Vividly ! is that I was between thousands of stars and spiraling galaxies ( I did not know back then what a galaxy was, let alone a spiraling one), but they were All Around 'me' and I was part of the Whole. I felt One and All Consciousness and Extremely Happy... Words are Very valuable tools - then again : Can a Beautiful and Breathtaking Masterpiece of Art be explained in words as such? Not really - it has to be seen, and then again : by the Eyes that can See. NDE at age 3 in Denmark. Shared 64 years later. NDEr is a retired dentist.

Debbie E NDE English expanded version 12/28/2007 I was out drinking with my ex-boyfriend and we were driving in his car after we left the bar. An argument took place during a heated discussion. (3 years later I still can't remember what we were arguing about)! After this took place I found myself in a dark tunnel with a bright light gradually coming toward me. I then saw my mother who passed away in the year 2000. She was in front of the light. We were communicating through each others minds, not verbally. We can understand one another I remember, but I don't have any memory of what was said. I just remember me feeling a floating sensation, not being in my physical body. I didn't like the look my mother had, it was a look of fear. I got that same look when she was alive at times she had worry and disappointment in her eyes. (she tilted her head down and kept her eyes staring straight inline with mine. NDE due to accident with head trauma.

David A Probable NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 I thought to myself, that this is hell and I said to whoever it was that was watching me that I didn't want to be like that, and suddenly I could feel that I was curled up in a fetal position and I could see a tunnel with a light at the end. I somehow knew I was in a woman's vagina, about to be born. I also somehow was told by the one watching me that I will forget everything and learn all over again, and that there was no guaranty that I'll be o.k.. I thought to myself, this is what it must be like for angels who don't have any experience. They're like children and could easily be fooled, or hurt. So I refused, and suddenly another being took my place in the womb. Then I saw children laughing and playing, and then teenagers talking with each other, and young people going through experiences and learning from them, and becoming old and calming down from their worries and finding peace, which made them happy. I said," this is what I want." "A life in a human body." "with the ability to taste, touch and feel, smell, and see, and especially the knowledge between good and bad. To live. And have an advantage over the other two states of being". then I awoke in the hospital. I was then trying to figure out if I was dreaming or awake. Told as a dream, but looks like it could be a NDE from the bad accident.

Stephanie S NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 From the UK My twin sister came to visit me and I was in shock for two days. All I knew was that I know had the knowledge that we don't die and that there is a wonderful peace and knowing when we do. I was distraught and it took me nearly two years to want to live as all I wanted to do was die and couldn't understand why they had sent me back. Allergic reaction and heart attack.

Nancy M NDE 221 English expanded version 12/17/2007 The nurse asked me if I felt dizzy or nauseous. I stood up and said that I felt a little nauseous. That is my last conscious thought until I was jerked back and found the code team standing around the bed. In that brief period while I was gone, I saw three or four people standing in the upper left hand corner of what I first described as a TV screen. My field of vision was more like a box. I could not recognize their faces, but they were all tall and slender. They had dark hair and the woman, at least, was dressed in a style that made me think of the 1940's. I have been in on several codes and know how this hospital runs them, and these beings were not the code team. The nurse gave me a copy of my tracing showing the asystole. Asystole after angioplasty. Saw several people standing near.

Arlene H NDE 222 English expanded version 12/17/2007 I remember the overwhelming feeling of calmness and very peaceful. The most I remember is how peaceful I felt. Then the next thing I knew I was looking down on people like I was up in the air looking down. There were people crowded around someone on the ground. The lady was very pretty and she was giving someone mouth to mouth at the pool. It was like watching TV. Then I looked closer and realized that was ME. I started to feel scared but not attached to that person. I saw my mom crying and the lady said if she doesn't wake up we will have to give her this shot. Well that is all it took for me. All of a sudden I was back in my body and saying please don't give me a shot. Child drowning NDE.

Jeana B NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 The next thing I knew my sight came back again and I saw my friend on the phone calling 911 and telling the person on the line that I was female and had been shot in the head. He looked so lost and afraid. I wanted to reach out to him so bad and tell him I was alright and never felt any pain and was at peace, but I could not. Again I had thought is this what its like to die. I thought I was going to see myself at my own funeral and actually be buried while I was in this state. Once again, I slipped into the darkness and felt so at peace with the darkness around me and actually saw the image of a hand through the darkness come at me and my soul turned around and I felt this hand push me away from behind. I truly believe this was my guardian angel. As I was turned away I found that I was falling back at the speed of light. I had re-entered my body and felt as if I was reborn again. My body was taking its first breath and I woke up in a state of shock gasping for air and kicking the paramedics around me. I felt as if my soul had given my body life once again. NDE from gun accident.

William R NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 All around me were other life forms being pulled up. I could see the end of the tube and it shined very brightly with white light. I kept going faster and faster until I flew out the end into space. There were stars all around, a groaning sound, I was cold, I also felt absolute bliss. I had a body, but it didn't have definition, a hand but no fingers, legs and feet, but no toes. Somehow I was drawn to this area where I could see life forms of all kinds, some even looked like elephants. They kept passing in front of me until a dark haired, human being stopped in front of me and introduced himself as my entrance into the records of all time, everything that has ever happened, or is going to happen. The library of all existing knowledge for all of Gods creatures. He shared all kinds of information with me, and even let me see other lifetimes I will be experiencing. I was given the choice to leave life on earth and continue on, or, he recommended I return to earth and complete this life cycle. He said it was important to complete each lifetime and its teachings before going on. Teenage suicide attempt.

Amy J NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 I became aware of being in a space filled with bright golden yellow light, with the feeling you get if you walk into a party where no one expected you and everyone stops and turns to look at you, as if to say 'what are you doing here?'. I couldn't see anything because the light was so bright but could sense others around me moving forward in one direction. I was not moving and felt like I had just stuck my head & shoulders up through a hole in the floor to see what was going on. At first I fought it (don't ask me what 'it' was, I think I was just being stubborn), but I remember thinking 'Hey, this isn't so bad!' I felt very warm (the inside kind & physically) and peaceful and safe. I felt like everything before just kind of came together to put me at this place where I was supposed to be. Just as I was starting to accept all this, it was like I was sucked up by a vacuum and it was gone, I was in darkness with no sense of having a real body but could hear my sister's voice. Pneumonia/sepsis/stopped breathing. OBE portion of the NDE.

Linda R NDE English expanded version 12/17/2007 This wasn't the same person that was with me in the tunnel. I knew this because his presence was most definitely male. He was dressed in a long white gown and also had shoulder length hair, only his was lighter then the first person's. He guided me to a marble bench just outside of the garden where we sat down to talk. He told me things that I cannot remember now but He told me that I would remember what we spoke about when the time was right. And then he said, that it was not my time to be there and that I needed to return to my family. Afterward, I felt as though I had spoken with Jesus. NDE from post-birth complications. Spoke with Jesus.

Christine S NDE 238 English expanded version 12/17/2007 There was a point when I knew that I was dead. I remember seeing car headlights and knowing that they were angels....I felt absolute total and complete ecstasy and an intense thankfulness that Heaven was real....that I was eternal and would absolutely never die. I was hearing bits and pieces of music....""thought I'd died and gone to heaven""...""I want to lay you down on a bed of roses, while tonight I sleep on a bed of nails...I want to be just as close as the holy ghost is...."" The experience is still very foggy in many ways for me. the intense (it was SO intense that I can't find strong enough words to describe!) feelings of ecstasy I had, involved knowledge on every level that I would be One with my husband, Kevin, and with our children, families and friends for all of eternity and I was so thankful to God that eternity was real!! as I said, the feeling was so intense at one point, that it is impossible to adequately describe, but that is the part where I knew that my husband and I would be together in heaven with our babies, friends and families always and that we would never feel any kind of pain again. NDE from Auto Accident. Life review. Highly disjointed and hard to understand. Multiple other parts of experience some of which are seemingly borderline lucid.

Suzanne B NDE 239 English expanded version 12/16/2007 From Australia I had always been "aware" of things that most people weren't. When I was a child an older lady would "come and get me" and show me things. I saw "televisions with pictures that could be controlled by an operator" - I know these to be computers now. I met with "beings" that looked a lot like the drawings that I have seen of "aliens". I have had an uncanny sense of the "departed" and can sum up a person within minutes of meeting with them. I can sense their pain and fear levels. I can unravel their minds for them, in a short conversation. These skills became "more" after my experience. NDE after a car accident.

Daniel A NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 This seemed to be a natural progression; there was an automatic review of my entire life--every event ever experienced complete with emotions (but viewed objectively)--rolling in front and around like a panoramic movie. From birth to death, in a linear fashion, observed without sadness or remorse. Yet in "earth time" it only took (in my best estimation) a quarter second. Yet it seemed to be weeks spent replaying my life. Once it was complete, there where a few more automatic "instructions" but then became immersed in infinite peace; bliss; ecstasy. Unimaginable love; understanding so great, powerful; so awesome as to be humanly incomprehensible. Heart stopped.

Kessie P Probable NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 The next thing I remember I was my heart pounding so hard I could hear it and feel it. It woke me up, my eyes were open and I was so scared. Then it stopped beating and I was being pulled incredibly fast through this dark tunnel toward a bright light. I felt there was someone beside me. I was scared, I knew it was not a dream. Then suddenly I felt as if I was dropped back onto the floor. Probable NDE from pain after a car accident.

Mort J NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I was standing across the room watching them work on me. . . .A beautiful amber glow. . . . I was told not to step through the doorway. There were 6 beautiful children playing in the hall. . . . I was told I couldn't go I wasn't finished yet. I was quite upset and angry. I told them I was tired worn out and ready to go. NDE from surgery complications. Although brief, it does talk about the NDE elements.

Joy B NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 While in arrest, I could see myself floating in a gigantic bubble of light. I could see doctors and nurses all around the table, and my body was laying on the table. The room was very dimly lighted. The next memory I have is that of a man talking to me. I KNEW it was God. I could not see His face because the light was so bright that encompassed Him. His voice was like none I had ever heard before - so calm. I had a great sense of peace. I was not scared. He talked to me. He said that I was in heaven but that He was giving me a choice - to either stay or return. He said, however that my work on earth was unfinished for Him, and that I was needed more on earth than in heaven. When He said that, I told Him I would return. At that point, He touched my left hand. Remarkable account that also describes seeing a little boy at the hospital happily playing as he passed to the other side. This account does provide comfort to those parents who have lost a child.

Cathy H NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I saw Jesus holding my 5 year old son who had died two years earlier in an accident. They were both dressed in white. they were standing or floating in this bright light. I couldn't see much of anything else I was to focused on seeing my son. Jesus was holding him. Jesus put him down and he came to me. I was so happy to see him. we embraced and I told him that I could see that he was in good hands and that he was very happy and full of love and peace ,but I had to go back to earth and help his sister, who was nine , to get through the trial of this life. I told him I loved him. He understood what I was saying and then I went back. I remember wanting so desperately to stay there with him, but I just couldn't. I felt very torn. and sad to leave at that moment. I'm sitting hear with tears in my eyes. I'd go back there in a minute if I could. It was such a wonderful experience. It's been such a blessing in my life. NDE from surgery complications.

Newie Y NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 Then I was outside the window (we were on the 37th floor) looking back on me passed out in the window. My hand was reaching out to the me in the window. The night dark but the stars were getting lighter eating up the night. I felt an urgency to take the me in the window with me or touch her or get her attention. I'm not sure. But she was out. Didn't see me. I turned to go--into the sky, night, light. not sure. Just that that person in the window had nothing to do with me any more. There was no sound. Maybe whooshing. But this is New York. There is always sound. This was quiet, Very quiet. Then I heard this colossal noise. NDE from anaphylactic shock.

Candy B NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I was in bed when the doctor arrived. He began to push and feel around my stomach when someone screamed. At that time I realized it was I who had screamed, but I wasn't "there". I was high up in a corner of the room watching the working on me. I "saw" me scream rather than "heard" it. The doctor was taking my blood pressure and said something about it being 35/0. He called for units of blood and was angry because they weren't thawed out. He gave me two a clear fluid, while the blood was being prepared. I continued to watch all the activity floating in a bright white light. It was peaceful and I was didn't want to leave it but a thought of my three year old daughter made everything disappear and when I woke up I think it was three days later. NDE from post operative complications.

Michael H NDE 261 English expanded version 12/16/2007 Suddenly I was floating in a blackness, but I felt no pain and no fear, I had the impression I looked to my left and saw in the distance two pillars, each with a Greek lamp on top, between them and beyond them was a glowing light. Somehow I knew intuitively I would not travel up and through them, so I turned my face back into the blackness. NDE from a heart attack. Experiencer is a Professor of Philosophy and Religion. He gives good distinction between NDE and also the hallucinations he experienced in the hospital.

Mary Lu R NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I REMEMBER GOING THROUGH A DARKNESS. I HAVE TROUBLE GOING INTO DARK PLACES, EVEN IN A STORM I HAVE TROUBLE GOING INTO OUR BASEMENT. THIS DARKNESS WASN'T THREATENING OR FRIGHTENING, IT ACTUALLY FELT COMFORTABLE AND SAFE. THEN I WENT INTO THE "LIGHT", I PUT EMPHASIS ON THIS BECAUSE I HAVEN'T WORDS TO EXPRESS HOW THIS LIGHT MADE ME FEEL. THERE SEEMED TO BE SERENITY, PEACE, HAPPINESS, EVERYTHING RIGHT WITH THE WORLD. I'VE TOLD OTHERS MULTIPLY YOUR MOST HAPPIEST FEELINGS, YOUR MOST CONTENTED FEELINGS TIMES A HUNDRED MILLION; AND THE FEELINGS I HAD DOESN'T EVEN COME CLOSE. MY GRANDMOTHER (ON MY MOTHER'S SIDE_) MET ME AND TOLD ME THAT GOD WASN'T THROUGH WITH ME YET. HE STILL HAD SOMETHING LEFT FOR ME TO DO AND THAT I HAD TO GO BACK. I FEEL I REALLY DIDN'T REALLY WANT TO; BUT GOD (OR WHOEVER THE SUPREME BEING IS) IS MOST POWERFUL. NDE from car accident.

Lewis D NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 At that time everything went black so black it was as though I could feel it. Then I seen a ball of light that seemed to be moving closer to me, it seemed to rouse interest in me at the time, I was moving closer to the ball it was perfectly round with twinkles in it. Then a big hand and arm very strong looking came into view coming to grasp this ball of light all the time saying with a low voice saying; I have everything under control. It was as if I was a part of this light somehow. NDE from fall.

Christine S NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I remember becoming aware of being in a dark place. there was no sound it was just dark. I seemed to be waiting there. then I began to move toward a brightly lit area. the area appeared to be a bright yellow wall with uneven sections that had definite lines running along it. along the lines the edges were faintly pink. I was floating along this wall but could only see one side of it as if my back was against the other side. yet I had no sense of having a body. I was just aware. as I continued to move along I became aware of a feeling of horror. that's what I remember feeling. I had the intense urge to get out of there. I kept saying to myself I've got to get out of here . I repeated it several times and then I felt myself falling and everything was black again. Beginnings of a NDE.

Leeta NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I SAW THE DOCTORS POKING ME WITH NEEDLES AND THE THOUGHT RACED ACROSS ME; HOW WONDERFUL TO NOT FEEL ANY PAIN. HOW AMAZING TO BE THIS AWARE AND HAPPY AND TO NOT FEEL ANY PAIN. IT WAS GREAT. THE NEXT I REMEMBER IS BEING UP TOWARD THE CEILING AND LOOKING DOWN, I SAW MY BODY AND THE DOCTORS AND ASSISTANTS HOVERED ALL AROUND ME. THEY WERE LOOKING AT MY BODY VERY CONCERNED AND MOTIONLESS ALMOST AS IF THEY WERE WAITING FOR SOMETHING TO HAPPEN. I WAS VERY AWARE, VERY HAPPY AND EXTREMELY AT PEACE. I LOOKED AT MY BODY IN THAT STATE AND SUDDENLY TRIED TO MAKE MYSELF SPEAK "TELL THEM IT IS TOO LATE." AS I TRIED WHAT WE HUMANS WOULD CALL DESPERATELY BUT YOU COULDN'T FEEL DESPERATION. AS IF YOU COULDN'T FEEL ANY NEGATIVE FEELING. THIS IS WHAT IS SO DIFFICULT TO EXPLAIN. "TELL THEM", I CONTINUED AGAIN ALMOST TRYING TO FORCE THE LIPS OPEN ON COMMAND. THEN CAME THE REALIZATION. "OH YES, I THOUGHT DEAD PEOPLE CAN'T SPEAK". NDE from hemorrhaging.

Marla W NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I found myself in this place. It was white and soft and peaceful- not really cotton-like or a fog (although that's the word I use to describe it), just enveloped in white. I seemed to be walking away from where I'd been (and could see myself moving but my legs weren't moving- I was gliding). I could hear voices around me but not make out what they were saying. After what seemed like many minutes, I became frustrated with the mumbling and stopped. I turned around and began to move closer to the voice that was loudest. As I moved back, the fog became gray and muddy in color and appearance. NDE from auto accident.

Lisa B NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I became aware that there were 2 (possibly 3) "beings with me, one on either side. They were communicating with me - directly, telepathically, just putting their input directly into my consciousness, no words and much less "time". I knew I was somehow removed from these usual "laws" or ways of processing experience. While I did not sense a life review on specific terms, I was shown, by understanding- not pictures or movies, many significant things in my life. The good and the bad. All focused on my contributions- how I handled myself. I remember the almost palpable absence of all fear. I was made to understand that this fear is what underlies many of our poor choices. That there is nothing to fear. I felt compassion toward myself like I never could imagine possible. A type of love that I never knew. Empathy, sympathy for all I'd experienced and a new determination to let myself live as I could and should and must. I knew I had a clear purpose and was shown this purpose so I could understand how needed I was. Fascinating life review! Experiencer is a Veterinarian.

Bernice N NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 As I was in the cat scan, I felt tightness in breathing. I began to gasp. I looked to my right thru a window and saw the technicians in a room talking. It became very painful (the choking) then it did not hurt anymore. I looked down and saw my body convulsing. I saw people rush in. The next thing I saw was a tube being shoved down a persons throat ( I was above the person like on the ceiling or something) I remember thinking that looks like it really hurts! I heard the Doctor's talking and I saw the paddles going towards the person. All of a sudden I realized that the person was me. I was scared. The next thing I knew I was back in my body on the table, and felt a choking feeling due to the tube down my throat. NDE from IV contrast reaction.

Katie T NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I remember parts of my life, not like seeing pictures, but living them over again in a very fast short way. It seemed like I was living the experiences of other people I had known or come in contact with in my life. It was as if I knew exactly how they thought and felt at those very moments. It seems as though I just knew all kinds of things and feelings that I had never been taught or experienced in my life. I just KNEW. It was warm and calm and peaceful and just felt like happiness. There just are not words to describe it. I just wanted to keep floating away as it just seemed to feel better the farther I went. Then all of a sudden it was as if I knew I couldn¹t stay. I had to go back, I had things to do. I didn¹t know exactly what they were but I knew my daughter was waiting for me and I had things I had to do. Then I felt guilty and confused because I wanted to stay in that warm peaceful place and I wanted to go back and finish what I needed to do. NDE from surgery complications.

Jean R NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I suddenly was aware I WAS A spirit looking down at my body. The relatives in the room were arguing over who could comb my hair. My mother sat quietly in a chair. My grandfather was talking to someone who appeared to be God but it was actually only light. I could not see God but I could hear his voice. My grandfather was asking God to let me stay with him. I was a good person. My grandfather's pet boxer was with him on a lease. I could feel the love between the dog and my grandfather. God reviewed my life. I felt some fear as I felt I was being judged and was not good enough for God. God told me I did something good that pleased him and seemed to try to ease my fears. It was something of helping a boy child in some way. God appeared only as a light and a authoritative voice. I could not see him. Afterwards he asked me if I wanted to stay or go back. I thought for a second and was given a vision of the future whereas my mother would get cancer. I felt in my heart she would need me as I told God nobody would be there to help her. At that point I returned to my body. NDE from suicide attempt.

Michael AS NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 The colors begin to pixel into solid square blocks of colors. Like if you slowly move closer and closer to your monitor screen until you're nose touches the screen. Then I saw black color still fully conscious but no longer in my backyard. I never really thought that I could be passing over never occurred to me. I had no more body, could not feel hot or cold. I didn't need to breathe, I didn't hear any sounds. I was pure consciousness. as I looked around but not through my eyes I just had vision and consciousness. I saw a black void endless in depth. I remember just thinking humm ok big black void? as I was floating in the void I turned to see what was pulling me forward slowly. I didn't feel any force on me just the sensation of being pulled towards something. I looked forward if you call it forward and saw a light in the void. I would say it was about 400 yards ahead of me and I would be there in about two minutes, at my constant speed. as I drifted towards the white light that twinkle like a star, it didn't hurt to look at it. NDE from cardiac arrest.

Jim W NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I also felt the presences of a indescribable light behind me. I did not want to turn to this light, maybe from fear of not returning. My fear was not of the light itself, in any way. I don't know how long this out of body took place. I remember the EMTs rushing around, fixing my busted up torso and head, and saying twice " Were losing him" After some time I felt what I know was the hand of God on my shoulder, and a very calming voice. If I may quote the Lord, "You are not done here". I felt a gentile push on my shoulders and was pushed back into my beaten body. I remember nothing after that point and until I left the coma I had slipped in to. What I do remember is the absolute presence of God. NDE from head injury from fall.

Levi J NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I'm in the void. I'm totally familiar with this now and what is going to happen. Again the light. Again hurling toward it trying to put my total faith in what that light is. Again failure. Then I'm back in the void. The light again appears. Instead of going to the light I basically prostate myself in its presence and plead," what is it I can do to be with you, How can I serve you?" Boom. I'm with God. I can remember laughing hysterically, not in a physical way, but the impulse that would make you feel that good. NDE from allergic reaction.

Deana M NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I found myself in a dark black warm fog, almost caressing, but I felt afraid, then the next moment I was swept into the light, like a blink on an eye, I felt immense love, joy and happiness, permeating my soul my entire being, having no cares, no wants, and no needs. There were children there laughing and playing, their laughter was like a heavenly music, I was as a child. but not in body as we call bodies, almost like a tear drop bubble, yet not. We were all on a cloud, but there was no earth below, blue sky above, a very deep yet clear blue. I wanted to stay and bask in that penetrating love, so vast, so deep, but had to go back. I went back to the black warm loving fog, then to nothingness. NDE from suffocation.

Kerry L NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I was being whisked through a tunnel at a very high rate of speed. There was the brightest light I have ever seen. It was blinding. I remember going through this tunnel, and then I remember floating above a field of flowers. Then I remember seeing the pearly gates and they were so beautiful. I wanted to get in there so badly, but was allowed to look over the gate, but the gate wouldn't open. Everything on the other side was so beautiful. More beautiful than anyone could imagine. The roads were emerald and diamonds everywhere with gold. Everything was so shiny and sparkly and just awesomely breathtaking. I saw Our Heavenly Father and he was sitting on a throne. He looked ghostly like, but a bright whitish glow about him. I kept saying, I need to get in there, I need to go to heaven. Let me in, Let me in. And I remember distinctly that his reply was "You can't get in here, it's not your time to go." And then he disappeared and everything went backwards. Back through the flowers, the bright light, the tunnel, and the darkness. NDE due to suicide attempt with unknown medication overdose.

Padraic R NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 I poised myself sitting upright against the wall near the glass pane I had just broken, I rested my right arm in my lap and each time I took a breath my arm would gurgle. I figured if the ambulance was called at the time I broke the glass they were over 15 minutes away from me, when I knew I had about 8 minutes left. I thought to clamp the wound but a voice in my head said "lie still, your fine!" I tried to keep track of my breathing which I lost count, I could no longer keep my head up or my eyes open I fell into a gentle sleep, this was when I was aware that I was dying. I was not frightened by this thought. I had no direct fear of the death awaiting me, I embraced it with warmth and recognition. I knew that I was still conscious but I didn't know how, I could think in 5 different directions at once, the expansion of my experience was greater than I've ever experienced in life, death became a new experience to me, this was an experience I wanted, I could talk to trees and ants on the ground, I experienced a "life tone" of the earth that I felt on one level. NDE due to cut and blood loss.

Kathy A Probable NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 The path zigzag and at the end of the path I could see a very bright light. I remember just standing in the path and a small girl who was like bright light was standing next to me and also a very tall man dressed in a green suit. In front of me were three beings dressed in black robes that had emeralds around their hoods. I could not see their faces and I was not afraid. I felt very calm and peaceful. They spoke to me with their minds and told me that it was not my time yet. That I had to go back and love Him. I did not understand what that meant. When I described the little girl in the bright light my mothers face just went white. She later told me that I had described my grandmother when she was about 12 years old. That white light remained very close to me even after I woke up. I kept pointing to her and telling my family that she was right next to me protecting me. Probable NDE from brain surgery complications.

Riki Stepfather, Lee NDE English expanded version 12/16/2007 This is a story that my deceased stepfather, Lee M., told me. He was admitted into the hospital for a heart attack. While he was in ICU, he experienced another heart attack. He told me that the doctors and nurses were there checking him out. He heard one of them say, "We're losing him" and he looked over to the heart monitor expecting to see it dropping. He told me that he was surprised to see it was a flat line and said 0 (zero). Then he was out of his body, up above the doctors and nurses, by the ceiling, watching them work on his body. He could see his body lying there and he said his mouth was wide open. Second person NDE account. NDE due to heart attack.

Wally T NDE English expanded version 12/15/2007 I was walking in the park with a friend on a nice cool breezy summer night. I noticed my shoestring was untied and sat on a wall to tie it. Before I knew what hit me my heart felt like it was racing, I grabbed my chest and was immediately surrounded by the brightest light I had ever seen, but I was looking right into it and then I felt as if a blanket of love had been wrapped around me. The love I felt told me that this had to be God. A voice came out of the light and told me of when it had saved me from myself many times. The voice told me a lot of things my future was revealed, and my true destiny in life was also revealed. the last thing that happened was the voice gave me the choice to live here on earth or come and be with God for all eternity. I chose to live, and God chose to give me another chance. One last thing, the whole time this was taking place I could hear my best friend in the background yelling that my body was glowing like a light bulb. NDE from cardiac arrest.

Lee Probable NDE English expanded version 12/15/2007 I tried the "want" a little harder...I moved faster!! It came to me in a rush I could move with a "thought" I started darting around like a firefly...rivers, mountains, lakes, oceans flashed into view and out...it was incredible! and then I looked up....the stars were pinpoints of light that I longed to travel to...I just knew that what I was looking for was up there somewhere...I started to pick a spot to "travel" to. but a beautiful tinkling sound stopped me....thinking back now I realize it was the only sound I ever heard "there", their laughter and 1 short sentence (that comes later). the lack of all describable feelings...cold, hot, wet, dry, loud, quiet, etc, I didn't notice till much later. anyway I looked around for the sound...again it came and I noticed the smaller clouds would light up BRIGHT!! when this tinkling sound happened. then I realized it was laughter. I was hearing, short, beautiful, with joy, glad to see you, bursts!! Probable NDE after heart surgery.

Buffy N NDE English expanded version 12/15/2007 I only remember looking down, from the left hand corner of the room, on a bed with someone in it and people around it doing something to that person. I had absolutely no feeling whatsoever. It was a quiet that was more than quiet and there were no emotions at all. At the time I wasn't thinking or hearing anything, just watching. When I awoke a day or so later was when I realized what a horrifying experience it was...totally cold and silent. It took me years to even mention this to anyone and I have never mentioned it to my family doctor even though after all this time and him knowing me I know he would believe me. Frightening NDE, Suicide Attempt.

Rue A NDE English expanded version 12/15/2007 Next I felt I was floating upward. I did sense that I was leaving my body and I remember thinking," I'm dying....I can't go....I have too many things to do. I was terrified...I remember thinking I just can't die now. There seemed to be such a struggle and then I just started to float. I just remember floating upward and it was easy....I wasn't fighting anymore. I never got past the ceiling and I never looked down. Then I remember someone saying I am here with you. I remember saying, "But I am floating away and I am dying. She replied, "We are here with you." NDE from Allergic Reaction

John C NDE 313 English expanded version 12/15/2007 I could not and started to lose consciousness, then instantaneously I blacked out then I began to rise above my body. I was very much aware of what was going on. I had my back to the light and I felt such peace. I heard them call the code blue I watched as they tried to resuscitate me. NDE from surgery complications.

Tommy M NDE English expanded version 12/15/2007 Was I to die or was this where I crossed over to this side but I couldn't now my wife needed me I had to take care of her she needed me she couldn't handle this. Then the light wrapped around me like the arms of love and understanding and the most peaceful feeling I have ever known I knew everything would be alright, and it wasn't time for me then I wanted to stay with mother and I wanted to be with my wife at the same time. NDE from surgery complications.

Diane C NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I first came to an absolutely serene and beautiful countryside. This is where I saw animals [including unicorns] and they were so beautiful and contented, so full of LOVE. The grass and trees and flowers were all so exquisite that my mind said so, and in return a vibration of Love flowed back to me from them. The water was so spectacular that I expressed this in my mind and the waters were living and sparkled back to me with love. There was melody or music all around, not unexpected and perhaps because I love music so much. And God has permitted me several times in this life to hear this awesome music, fully more melodic and more beautiful than anyone could write while here on earth. Just suddenly playing and filling my soul with joy. Exceptional NDE from Cardiac Arrest.

Winton R NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 The next memory I have is I'm on the bottom, the water is extremely bright and clear. I start swimming along the bottom, and brightly colored fish, some almost neon, come by and start playing tag with me. I start playing with them and find I can swim quite fast. I think for a second that I should be breathing, but decide I don't have to because I like it here. shortly later, I start choking, and came to on the beach with the lifeguard working on me and my family and a crowd around me. Child drowning NDE

Goldie J NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 Then, I felt myself slipping away into a black, warm tunnel; I was going backwards not forwards. It was like falling back into a nice, cushiony warm place. It was comfortable and an Ahhh! feeling, like all my problems and pain were forever gone. I have fainted before but it did not feel like this. This was a good feeling. Beginnings of a childbirth NDE.

John M NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I have no idea how long it was before he noticed, but I distinctly remember looking down at myself, from about 8 ft away, and 4-6 ft above me. I was in front of myself, seeing me getting electrocuted. I could see Will breaking down the tool kit, and I could see me, doing the stupid maintenance trick, and the only feeling I had, was that I was being very stupid, and I would remember this dumb act for quite some time to come. I had a feeling of anger, knowing that if I didn't get my butt back in gear soon, we would have some major explaining to do to the commander. I wasn't at peace, I was upset that I was malingering and goofing off. It was a very strange experience. Beginnings of a NDE from electrocution.

Clio P NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 Suddenly I found my mind floating outside of my body. It stopped just above and behind the nurse on my right. I could see the back of the nurse and beyond her the delivery table and other hospital personnel gathered around the table. I remember seeing the back of the cap the nurse wore that covered her hair -- like a shower cap -- and the ties on the back of her gown. It was interesting that the nurse blocked my view of the face of the body on the delivery table. I was not the least bit afraid; in fact, I was absolutely intrigued by the experience as it unfolded. I had no sense of time, so I have no idea how much time elapsed when the scene before me started to go black. It was like the old TV picture tubes from many years ago: When you turned the TV off, the picture contracted to a little dot of extremely bright light in the middle of the black screen before it went completely dark. Childbirth NDE, but what is unusual is that the experiencer still believes the experience was a trick of the mind and that there is no afterlife.

Tenna N NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I remember a feeling of floating through the back of the paramedic as he was straddled over me. I watched him with great interest do mouth to mouth and CPR. As I watched this I felt myself start to float away from the scene, but not to far, as I was very intrigued as I realized that was my physical body. I felt a voice/presence/force behind me, telling me, not giving me a choice that I had to "go back", it wasn't my time. I never turned to look at the presence behind me, but also felt a very gentle nudge in the direction of my physical body. I didn't re-enter my body until my "spirit" as it were, reluctantly agreed. Teenage suicide attempt. Experiencer is now a registered nurse.

Remos G NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 The first one I met was on like in a hooded robe whom I knew immediately as someone who had been with me all my life. ( I know for certain this was my guardian angel) next a Godly figure appeared in front of me and as I raised my head in the lying position I was given a choice of great pleasure (heaven) or great pain returning to my body. NDE as a pedestrian being hit by a car.

Ruth M NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 WHILE SEEING ALL THE BEAUTIFUL COLORS WHIRLING AROUND ABOVE ME, I FELT INSIDE A VACUUM - I DO NOT FEEL I WAS IN MY BODY . . . PEACE, SERENITY, AWE, NOT AFRAID, REALIZING I WAS DYING. NDE from Atrial Fibrulation, Experience written in the form of a poem.

Kristy M Probable NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 Next thing I remember was floating near the ceiling with my legs crossed Indian style everything was dark, I had no fear, no pain, and I did not remember anyone that I had in my life. I do remember being in an extremely calm and peaceful self. I had my body, yet I did not know it was me at the time. I was in the operating room looking down on the doctors and nurses, I could see the equipment and I could hear some things. They were working very hard, as I was looking down I came across a body lying on the table, and just thought to myself, why don't they just let that poor girl go. That was it. Probable NDE from surgery.

James C NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I left the home following a light during this time I saw some of the trauma things from my life. The closer I came to the light the more peace I felt, then I came to a field of the greenest grass surrounded by the most colorful flowers I ever remember in my life. From a distance coming toward me were four people, as they got closer I knew two of them. They were my grand parents, the other two could have been also my grand parents but I never met them. My Grand Mother and I spoke but with out words, I don't know how but I knew what she was saying. She told me it wasn't my time. We she looked great and a lot younger she also had all her body parts. When she died she had one leg and was 98 or 99. At that point I walk toward the light I stood there just letting the peace flow thru me and the next thing I was back watching them work on me again. NDE from Cardiac Arrest.

Melissa NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 After was taken to hospital & in coma, I distinctly remember things. I remember telling my family to turn off lights & shut blinds because it was too bright in the room. They tell me lights are off & it is 9:00 at night. I remember telling my parents about an angel floating next to my TV screen. Remember a man in white gown standing beside doctors as they examined me. Remember meeting my Grandparents who died before my birth. I was able to tell things I never would have known otherwise. I can't describe all I've been through in this little amount of space/ time. Tree limb fell on her.

Bunny J NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I was taken outside of my body,, outside of the car,, and wrapped with this most incredible feeling of power and peace. it was God!! God then asked if I wanted to stay here on earth or go with Him.. Of course, I said I want to go with you God. He said ok, let me just show you something first, he put me at my funeral,, under the ground, on a grey drizzly day,, I was in my casket with my hands folded on my stomach,, all my friends and family were there,, and all I could see were their grey tears,, God said,, is this how you want your friends and family to remember you? I think I said no,, but I still would rather go with you God. NDE from violent criminal attack. Don't read this if violence or rape bothers you.

Charles L NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 At this point......I saw little windows pass in front of me, like I was inside a tiffany lampshade and each little window had a era of my life when I was growing up, it was really weird, next thing I remember I was picked up and taken to the hospital there I passed out, from the pain. When I woke up, unknown how long I was out, a priest was standing over me giving me last rites!!!!. I spoke and told him I am not ready to go yet. War NDE with life review.

Risa L Probable NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I wasn't just sleeping at the time, I was having an NDE! This is what it was like. I flew above my bed and saw how gray I was. It made me very scared but then a light appeared in front of me that was BEAUTIFUL, but it was far away. I walked, or "flew" toward it. When I got to it a strange lady appeared in front of me. Saying "Hello, Laura! I love you, but you have to go back." I was very puzzled about this, but I went back towards the darkness and into my room. I laid down on my body to re-connect with it. In the morning I asked my mom why I didn't have a grandma like all the other kids. She told me that she died before was born, and showed me a picture of her. "This was the strange lady I met last night!" I said. My mom just kind of sat there thinking "Huh? Could it be? Nah." Probable NDE from allergic reaction at age 5.

Steven D Probable NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 At the hospital, I remember leaving my body on the operating table going upward. I was greeted by an angel. I wisely extended my hand and asked who his name was. He complimented me and answered, "I come from the presence of the Lord and my name is Moroni, an ancient prophet." There's no doubt that he was accidentally shot. The question comes in when he tells the story about being dead on the operating table for 3 days.

James M Probable NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 From Canada I immediately sensed a warm comfortable feeling of euphoria and all the pressure on my chest disappeared. I observed the wall of the room across from me, begin to take on the appearance of fieldstone with soft colors of blue, brown, rose, yellow and move. There were mortar lines separating the various stones. After the wall had taken shape, a tunnel portal (similar to those on a railway) started to form in the centre. I noted the floor just inside the tunnel entrance begin to open in a zigzag pattern allowing a very very bright white light to emanate through the floor. I felt compelled to enter the tunnel and I then floated towards the entrance. About midway between the bed and the tunnel I noted my wife (a registered nurse) seated in the corner of the room and made a conscious decision to say "Good-bye Mary". She responded with an angry, "Don't you dare die, you have too much to live for." He thought he was going, but wife had other plans.

James M NDE 374 English expanded version 12/14/2007 I turned to see where the singing was coming from, it was coming from outside the door. There were 6 beautiful children all dressed up playing ring around the rosy, around a really large pillar in the hall. Behind them was the most beautiful amber glow, soothing and warm. I realized I wasn't in pain anymore. I felt happy, relieved and at peace. I started to go to the children but I couldn't step through the door. I turned and looked at the dragon, he smiled and said I wasn't done yet, I still had tasks to perform. I told him like hell, I'm old tired and I want to go. He said I couldn't go. The scorpion came over and touched me. The next thing I remember was waking up and seeing what I assume were ghosts walking past me and out through the back wall. NDE from cardiac arrest.

Shelby M NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I started feeling the presents of "others" around me welcoming me and calling me by name. I asked them who they were and the told me their names. I felt a connection to them somehow but couldn't figure out how they knew me because they didn't look familiar but "felt" familiar. The communication was not like talking to people like talking normally, it was more like we talked to each other in our heads. The feeling of so much pure love that came from them and this place was so intense that it still brings me to tears as I write this. Just as I was re acquainted (so to speak) with the others I noticed that they started to move away from me and I wanted to be near them because of the intense feeling of love but I couldn't move forward to them. It was like I was planted in that spot and that pulling or flying to the direction I had before stopped. Then this "voice" said loud and firm...No, not yet, you have to go back. And at that instant I was whipped back into my body. Two NDEs at age 16.

Dian S Probable NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 My feeling is I'm being tortured because I can't breathe and I finally have a realization that I have to do something with this life. It dawns on me I will forgive myself for not doing it perfect, and I say this out loud to my self. Upon saying this, the wall disappears, and I'm in a warm beautiful "really neat" place. The 1st thing I thought was "They lied to me; there's nothing to judge here with" (read that carefully). The experience of being there was "Like swimming naked at night in the Gulf of Mexico" totally supported, perfect environment. the next realization was that my body was not there, but I had a sense of where it should be. Next, I knew everything; I had all knowledge. There was also the realization that the past was around me, the future was around me but everything was Now. I was not the Nowness, but I was a part of that Nowness, and it could not be without me, and I could not be without it. Probable NDE from sudden loss of blood pressure.

Sharon G NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 LOVE, extreme, overpowering, happiness; like I had been infused and surrounded by the love. . . .Heaven, no doubt in my mind, the colors and feeling were BEAUTIFUL. . . .I knew I was surrounded with love and loving people. A bit cryptic but the answers show it is a NDE.

Ginger M NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 Suddenly I could no longer feel my body which was weird, since I had been shivering with fear and cold just moments before. I was only aware of an exquisite sense of warmth and peace and the brightest, most golden-white glow enveloped me. Then it felt as if I travelled through a sort of tunnel, and I viewed what looked like brief film clips of my life up to my present age. I could even see expressions on the faces of family members. Adult drowning NDE

Thomas O NDE English expanded version 12/14/2007 I remember the feeling of my body lifting as if I was going to rise to the sky. I told my friend to hold me down, hold me down. That is the last I remember before blacking out was the brightness of some kind of light, it may have been the sun. The next thing I knew, it seemed like hours had past and I could see a crowd of people from above. I was looking down on them. I did not know what they were doing. I do remember wondering why they were on the other side of the street from when I last remember being awake. I could see someone holding a person up that was sitting on the ground. I then woke up to throwing up and vomit being in-between my legs and lots of people standing around. I remember people and the cop trying to keep me awake. It seemed like for ever before the ambulance arrived. I don't remember being loaded into it but I do think I left out of my body again while on route to the hospital. There is this vivid image of me watching the ambulance as it traveled to the hospital. NDE up to the OBE phase.

Tim E Probable NDE English expanded version 12/10/2007 From the U.K. I knew the body on the operating table was mine, but it didn't matter. That was just a temporary place. The surgeon was doing the best he could to fix it, and I had no worries there, but it was just a temporary place. I, me, myself, was here, stood behind the surgeon. It was vivid, so vivid. And I kept getting the feeling it had happened twice, that I had left my body twice. All that flashed through my mind as I tried to sit up and then lay propped on my elbows. I didn't say anything to the nurse at the time, and seeing as I wasn't allowed to get up yet I lay back down and promptly fell asleep again.

David NDE 3405 English expanded version 12/10/2007 Went into surgery and saw my heart on a monitor being pumped with some kind of dye. Passed out and had the NDE. I found myself in God's presence. No light, just a soft grey haze around everywhere. Jesus put His hand on my right should and said "This one belongs to Me". I had been informed that it was not my time yet. I could go back but the choice was mine to make. I was welcome there but must chose what I want to do. Feeling safe and loved and all knowledge available. No secrets. No wanting for anything. Very safe from any harm. I found myself waking up in the recovery room with nurses and doctors by my side. NDE due to heart attack.

Simone R NDE English expanded version 12/10/2007 From the U.K. I went to a place but it was just pink fluffy clouds and bright light. There was the most beautiful choir music too. I could feel hundreds of people looking at me and smiling although I couldn't see them and there was a very strong smell in the air of flowers although I couldn't see any. In front of me stood my great Nan and great granddad, my little brother and my Nan was holding a baby. All deceased. My Nan handed me the baby and although I couldn't see the baby just its blanket I instinctively knew it was my baby. My brother kept trying to pull me with him but my Nan kept pushing me back and saying " go back it's not your time, you're needed." I felt sad and confused as to why my Nan didn't want me but I soon felt exhilarated and happy. I woke up to my boyfriend giving mouth to mouth he said I'd stopped breathing in my sleep. NDE from apparent cessation of breathing during sleep from unknown cause at age 16.

Tabitha B NDE English expanded version 12/10/2007 I was hurting like I could feel what was going on. (I never remember my seizures) So I let go, I just let go. The stillness came back. I got up to comfort Brandon, my fiancé. I wanted to tell him that I was fine. When I did, I saw myself choking. I wasn't choking myself like my nightmares. I was just choking I couldn't breathe. I was on top of myself watching myself and all these shapes were moving like people or animals around me. I wanted to go back inside, because I was worried about Brandon. He was so sad. I could feel his worry and sadness, but I couldn't feel my own. There was this plasma thing between me and me. I guess I fell through it I don't know. Then I went back to feeling everything in my body. All the pressure and tension and pain. I guess I passed out again. The next thing I remember is waking up in the hospital. NDE due to seizure.

Marnie M NDE English expanded version 12/10/2007 From Canada While the accident was happening I can remember feeling no pain, I was happy and looking forward in dying and going on. There was a light, and I was delighted to head towards the light, and looking forward to the light in getting closer. I remember saying to the light. I really wanted to join it. A mans voice came to me and told me I couldn't go with them. I was really upset, and wanted to know why, because I was so ready to go. The voice told me that I had to go back, that it had special plans for me, that where very important, and that my job wasn't done yet. I remember arguing, and saying again I wanted to go with him. But told I had special things to do on earth, and I had to go back. I excepted the answer, and understood that they where telling me that there was a special plan. Then I woke up outside the car on the ground. Only to be completely unharmed, only with a few pieces of glass in my skin. NDE due to auto accident.

David L NDE 385 English expanded version 12/8/2007 All I could see was black all I could hear was my heart beating slower and slower. I remember praying "I don't want to die, Please God I don't want to die" I started to cry I know I was crying because the tears were warmer then the water. I could no longer hear my heart. Then I saw these things like huge bubbles but they were not bubbles they kept getting closer and closer. They hit me with extreme force and each time one would hit I would see a moment from my past when I was being mean or rude to someone but I saw it through their eyes and I could feel how I was making them feel. It was awful. One after another they wouldn't stop each bubble seemed to last forever and felt worse and worse. It was like watching a virtual reality video and feeling every emotion and physical pain. Then I saw my funeral and all my loved ones and how they felt from me being dead. I started to pray and had an understanding of some sort of what was going on. It was almost like a mini judgment of my life up to that point. Everything that I had said or done to hurt anyone was coming upon me. Child drowning NDE.

Arlene H NDE English expanded version 12/8/2007 Then I was walking toward the brilliant light I saw through a hole in the darkness. I came to a hooded figure but couldn't see the face, but the form glowed dimly reflecting the light coming through the hole and I was completely visible, my arms and legs - everything looking normal in the light all safe and sound. The person stepped aside to let me in, but I stopped "dead." Although it was wonderful in there, brilliantly peaceful and rejoicing people, like a congregation at a very full church, shoulder to shoulder all singing and praising God. All I could see where they were facing was incredible light, bright, brilliant, glowing, shimmering, and the mood was powerfully approaching the "Great Amen." It was no surprise. I knew the place somehow. It was like going home, returning from somewhere, back again, safe and sound. Drowning NDE.

Curt AL NDE English expanded version 12/8/2007 The "nice place" whatever or wherever it was, was down and to the right. That it, if I had been lying with my head to the north and feet to the south, the place would have been southwest, or maybe south-southwest. It wasn't really "down" but toward my feet. I sensed that whatever that place was -- it was brighter than the green mist. Not uncomfortably bright as the hospital had been, but comfortably bright. I wanted to go there. I did have the flash review of life. While I felt that everything was moving extremely slowly, the review was incredibly fast. I remembered a lot of incidents from the past . . . re-performed roles . . . held "conversations" with people. I remembered my entire life, almost as if I were re-living life on multiple levels simultaneously. I felt this incredible power to devote my total concentration on several different things at the same time. NDE after a party.

Erika K NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 I would like to first add that I came into this life with a memory of before and choosing this difficult life path that I was to accept. In my near death experience I remember leaving my body and suddenly being in a place surrounded by the purest form of love which permeated everything and being with loving beings. One spoke to me and began to show me the importance of the future of my life as a human and how each of us played an important part in the development of each of us as a whole. I was shown how we were all connected to each other and if our lifes plan is not fulfilled how it impacts the whole. I was then given the choice to stay or return. I chose to return. But what I can never forget was or is the divine love, the creation, the creator. I somehow knew that we are reincarnated many times and that the plan is for us all to evolve into that pure love here now. NDE due to suicide attempt at age 16.

Anthony D NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 I STARTED TO GET DIZZY I MUST OF PASSED OUT AND THE NEXT THING I KNEW I WAS OUT OF MY BODY AND LOOKING DOWN AT EVERYONE STANDING AROUND ME .IT TOOK A MINUTE TO REALIZE WHAT WAS GOING ON .THEN SUDDENLY I FELT THIS GREAT FELT THIS GREAT FELLING OF PEACE AND I FELT I BECAME A PART OF THE WHOLE UNIVERSE TOTALLY FREE OF WORRIES AND CARE. I WANTED TO STAY THERE. BUT SOMETHING SEEMED TO BE PULLING ME BACK . ITS TAKEN MANY YEARS TO EVEN TALK ABOUT THIS. NDE after passing out.

Anika S NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 The most profound part was when I found myself falling, falling and being very afraid, unsure of what was happening and just confused. I was in the blackest place ever, it was like being out of space without the stars. As I'm falling, I hear a voice telling me that everything would be alright and in that instant I felt the most amazing peacefulness, stillness and genuine love I have ever felt. It felt like my soul was touched by the Holy Spirit. After that, I saw in the distance a tunnel, all this time though I'm floating/swimming towards the tunnel, which is made up of spheres, the brightest colors I've ever seen. I'm swimming/floating though them. I remember being guided, and being told things (unfortunately I don't remember what was said, I just remember guidance). The next thing I remember after that was waking up and my dad, proclaiming, "Sofee, you're alive!!". NDE due to illness and complication. Experience happened only 10 months ago.

Andrew P Probable NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 I asked my father why there was no light or tunnel and if he was sent to guide me on my future journey "across". I felt sad and angry when he told me that he had come to send me back to the land of the living. When I objected strongly he told me that "I still had more to do and that my job on Earth was not yet finished" I asked what he meant by that and he raised his right arm (although he was not in a clear human form he was able to point to a direction behind me). Probable NDE during surgery.

Kerryanne M NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 From Australia Sometime during the op. I became conscious and was freezing cold, I could smell a strong antiseptic odor, could hear a continual beep (which I guess was the heart monitor) and could hear conversation above me as people worked, and was aware of a tight clamping feeling over my abdomen. I tried desperately to let the staff know I'd awoken, but could not open my eyes or even move. So I just lay there hoping I'd sleep again when very suddenly the beeping sound started to quicken then leveled out - I knew what was happening and very calmly & clearly thought "I'm dying" and felt no fear which was surprising as up until then I'd always been terrified of death. Just as this happened I felt the most incredible feeling of everything just coming together inside me and it was the most beautiful feeling of warmth & joy. I felt myself rising upwards and was surprised that I could hear that level ringing sound so clearly though I was not in my body. NDE due to surgical complication. Interesting in that some skeptics claim partial awakening during general anesthesia may account for NDEs during surgery. Here there is a very clear difference between partial awakening under anesthesia and the NDE shortly after this.

Eva W NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 The next thing I remember was the light of my grandmother's garden and walking around her beautiful back yard. Jesus then appeared saying that I now had what I finally wanted. I asked him what he meant by that and he said that during the course of my thirty-seven year old life I had said that I hate my life 1,535 times and now he was giving me the opportunity to never have to worry about going back to my miserable life again. As we walked together I noticed two deer waiting for us. They were the two deer that some hunters killed in 2000 and tossed along side the road of where we used to live in the country and I took the remains and gave them a proper burial because I couldn't stand to see someone do that to them. My late grandmother came to me then saying that she would take care of my baby if I wanted to go back home and that she felt I was too young to be with her just yet. NDE due to pregnancy complication and bleeding.

Vincent L Probable NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 On June 21, 2005 at about 9pm I got sick and went to the bathroom to get sick. The light was so bright and white, I was so peaceful you will never feel like that on earth, the person that talk to me, we talked with our minds, than they told me I had to go back...I got mad ....a big man all in white with big blue eyes and long white hair told me again, you must go back your job is not done...

Jason C Fear Death Experience English expanded version 12/5/2007 This is what I saw. I remember seeing the rock fly out of the hold and thinking "oh no". All of a sudden I was knocked out of my body. It was like someone pushed me hard but instead of my body going with the push it was just my soul. I saw myself fall down to the rocks below. At this point I got confused. I thought "Well, If I am up here who's down there". I remember bring my hands up or where they should've been and seeing something like a static light where they should've been. Right at this point for whatever reason I started noticing my surroundings. The river below me looked like a liquid crystal. It was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. The leaves on the trees were bright neon green. Then everything started getting extremely bright. All of a sudden there was this brilliant flash of light. Then it went completely dark. Rock climbing accident. Note OBE began prior to impact at end of fall. This phenomena has been reported in a number of other rock climbers who fell, and experienced OBE prior to impact. Clearly in the spectrum of experiences as NDE.

Barbara B NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 Up on the ceiling, I felt absolutely calm and extremely unworried, and the thought that I immediately had was, "I'm dead. If I'm up here, and my body is down there, I've died." There was no angst, fear, or anger, it was just a statement of the situation as I watched the people below working over my body. I actually felt nonchalant about my own death. I calmly began talking to God, as I usually do, and I simply said that I needed to go back. I said that I needed to return to raise my three month old baby daughter and my eight and a half year old son. I knew that I would soon be leaving my husband, as I was in an emotionally and physically abusive marriage, and that the children would need to be raised by me. I asked to return to my body to be the support for my children. I strongly wanted to return to my body, I calmly requested God to return me. NDE due to complication of medical procedure (myelogram).

Sheri G NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 The next thing I knew I was in the ER floating above watching the Doctors shock me back into my body. They took me into surgery and the next thing I remember is someone pushing on my stomach and the pain was excruciating. Someone said "Rebound" and we were headed back into surgery. I was in a coma for eight days, so I'm not sure exactly "When" but at some point I found myself traveling a dark tunnel with a bright light beckoning. The closer I got to the light the more love I felt. The light got bigger and bigger and I could see all kinds of loved ones who had passed on. My grandma Jessie had her arms wide open to hug me and the closer I got the more overwhelming love I felt. I heard beautiful music and saw angels all lined up across the sky behind my relatives. I was so happy!! I felt SO MUCH love through every pore in my body. All of a sudden I heard my Mother saying "Think of Tina" (my daughter) "Think of Tina" and the light started getting farther away. I came to. NDE due to being stabbed.

Vandimir Probable NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 My first memory is of falling through blackness. It didn't seem to bother me, but got a little boring. Then I noticed a small light way off in the distance. With nothing better to do, I sort of fell in that direction. When I got close enough I could see that it was a person. He was head to toe consumed in flame, as well as falling through blackness. I said "Hi, my name's Joe", he said "I am forever falling and forever burning." He told me that some long time ago, he and I were one, and if he had anything to say about it, we would be one again some day. Atypical imagery. Allergic reaction from a tetanus shot.

Mary P NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 I looked immediately to my left out my rear passenger window to see the head lights of the car that was behind me now shinning in my rear passenger window. That was the last thing I remember. I then was above my car in euphoria. Everything was beautiful, the sun was out, I was smiling and felt warm and joyful. I looked at my car and could see it veering to the other side of the freeway as there was no divider. It was headed into the west bounds lanes. I saw the car that hit me behind my car and it had stopped. the driver had gotten out and was looking at his front bumper. I looked again at my car traveling to the other side of the freeway. I puzzled why it was moving. Suddenly a man voice in my right ear stated ‘If you don't go back, someone will die.’ I remember not wanting that to happen. I woke up with my hands on the steering wheel and trying to gain control of the car and trying to turn it away from the oncoming traffic. NDE due to auto accident.

Patrick B NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 The EMTs showed up and began working on me and as they were doing their job I remember feeling a rush of warmth come over me, but looking down I could see how cold and lifeless my body looked, I really thought nothing of it I was completely comfortable just seeing what was going on. The really freaky part came when they put me in the ambulance I actually went with my body to the hospital all the while being able to hear everything around me and see it very clear. I remember what seemed to be emotions although it felt as if I was being pulled in two different directions at once. One saying stay and the other saying I must go. NDE due to falling and hitting his head.

Warren R NDE English expanded version 12/5/2007 I TOOK AN OVER DOSE I COULD SEE MY DEAD FATHER MOTION TO ME WITH HIS ARMS JUST GO BACK ITS NOT YOUR TIME YET HE DIDN'T TALK BUT IT WAS LIKE I KNEW EVERYTHING HE WAS THINKING . THE NEXT THING I HEARD WAS THE VOICE OF MY WIFE AND MY CHILDREN CRYING THAT'S WHEN I CAME BACK IN MY BODY, I WOKE IN THE ICU UNIT ON FULL LIFE SUPPORT. NDE due to overdose.

Mark D NDE 3382 English expanded version 12/5/2007 From the United Kingdom Now facing the crossing my perceptual field elevated a little to the buildings disappearing into the horizon far down the street… An image of an artwork that I had created in my early teens for a school project entered my mind and replaced the last visual image that I had seen (of the street)... this was of a perspective exercise that I had drawn, with long, tall buildings diminishing into the distance. In this exercise I had covered each panel of each building with cutouts from magazines and one panel in the centre left stood out. There I had replaced the quadrilateral shape of the building with a picture that of a young baby girl's face. NDE due to being struck with motorcycle.

Lampton K Fear Death Experience English expanded version 12/5/2007 The on-coming car approached hitting me on the rear driver side fender. Right before impact I believe my spirit shot out of my body. As I was hovering above the area I saw it all happen. The person who hit us he was sipping his coffee , the couple who was behind me was shaking there heads, everything felt timeless, the girl at the bus stop was covering her eyes. Man it's like super slow motion because I saw everyone and everything in that area. My buddy who was in the car with me and he was screaming and crying. I did notice though, I was still connected to my physical self by some silver lining. As my car was spinning and when it came to complete stop my spirit came back into my body not gently. It was like a a Big Slam!! OBE onset immediately prior to auto accident, thus a ‘fear-death experience’.

Dawn K Possible NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 AS I LAID IN THE ROOM I COULD TELL I WAS PASSING AS I SAY AND THIS IS WHAT MY NDE I COULD SEE WHITE FLUFFY LIKE LARGE THINGS I WOULD COMPARE THEM TO CLOUDS I GUESS AND I WAS BEING PULLED THROUGH SOMETHING???? TUNNEL I AM NOT SURE BUT THE LIGHT WAS BECOMING MORE AND MORE BRIGHT VERY BRIGHT I WAS SQUINTING MY EYES AND COULD NOT TAKE THE LIGHT. SOME FORCE AS I SAY AS I AM NOT SURE HOW TO REALLY EXPLAIN IT WAS PULLING AND PULLING AND I WAS PUSHING AND PUSHING EVEN AS SICK AS I WAS SOME HOW I KEPT PUSHING MYSELF AWAY FROM THE LIGHT AND KEPT DOING SO, BUT THE LIGHT WAS SO BRIGHT EVEN NOW AS I TELL ABOUT IT I SQUINT IT HURT MY EYES SO BAD.

Dennis G NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I felt a floating sensation then a terrible impact. I felt my body being tossed around violently. (My background in landing on the ground during my skydiving days trained me to totally relax in order to minimize body damage ).Then a strange thing happened. Time seemed to stand still and I saw a black hole with a bright light at the end of it. AS I passed through the black hole the noise was deafening and made a whooshing sound as I exited it. I found "myself" above my body with my friend trying to bring me back to life using any means possible. As I was "floating" above my body there was a feeling of serenity like I've never experienced before. NDE due to auto accident.

Lois M NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I saw colors that don't exist. And even though the light was brighter than I had ever seen it didn't hurt the eyes, in fact, it soothed the eyes and appeared soft and bright at the same time. I can't say that there was depth perception as we know it... it was greater than that... again, like a oneness and all things perceived in its entirety. I learned from that experience that there is such a thing as "the minds eye". NDE due to near drowning at age 15.

Sarah M Possible NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I was hemorrhaging blood (I thought it was ketchup but I knew I couldn't have eaten that much ketchup!) I told my parents and they looked at me with something in their eyes (fear). I ran back to the bathroom and I heard my mother scream in terror and cries and moaning. I was tired and laid down to rest on the floor--my back to the floor and I looked up and saw myself on the ceiling. I wasn't scared at all. I felt someone holding me so tight yet so gently and could feel wind and bright light and words exchanged (I couldn't hear the words but suddenly I felt myself thrust back into my body.) I felt then that life is precious and it is much easier to "die" than to be born. I was told later that I was on "the critical list for 6 days".

Stefanie R NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I saw this white bridge with my dead uncle Nick (he was my favorite family member who died when I was in the 4th grade) standing there, I went up to him and he spoke to me, telling me that this was the "family bridge" where everyone in our family goes after we die and one member is there to greet us, that after we cross it there is no going back, but that I didn't have to stay that I had to choose to either go back and live and suffer in many ways but find what I've been looking for, or stay with him but I would never be able to go back to my life, I remember not believing that I was really there thinking that he wasn't really there either and asking him to let me touch his face but he wouldn't let me, then he asked me what I wanted to do and I said "well if this is heaven then I'll go back" NDE due to auto accident.

CJ L NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I remember closing my eyes and letting out a breath. Then I found myself very alert thinking it doesn't sting, I felt very much at peace, it was dark and I could feel I was moving to my right, kinda like floating fast, I thought at first to yell echo, then thought it would be inappropriate. My next thought was, this is it! I Prayed the Lord's Prayer, and I don't remember the other Prayer, I recall thinking.. Now I get to sing!! At that moment I had a rush like when you fall in a dream. I was upset about being taken away from there! I sat up and looked around saying do you have heating pads under me it's hot take them out! It was the electricity from being shocked back. I know now that I (coded) on the table for about 30 seconds. NDE due to heart attack.

Steven S NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 The 3rd strike of the club put my down to the floor almost instantly. I felt no fear no pain it felt really comfortable not breathing. I felt safe and protected and like I wanted to stay in this state of euphoria. Then a dark space drew me in straight after that I was drawn in to a really bright light where it seemed my whole life flashed by in clips. I mean everything in seconds after seeing this I didn't want to stay here any more however comfortable it was. It felt like I had something I had to come back and do something to live for it also felt the something didn't want me to pass over yet. At that point I heard a voice I don't know who's it was unfamiliar it sad calmly you can ether stay down and die or stand up and live… NDE due to head injury.

John H NDE 3369 English expanded version 11/28/2007 As the image became clearer I could see that it was a woman, dressed in a chocolate brown colored robe closed with a cream colored cord fastened around her waist. Her brown wavy hair fell across her shoulders. As the mist disappeared from in front of her face I could see she was smiling. Her arms were down and slightly away from her body and were slight forward. I was aware that the lower part of her form was still surrounded by the misty white fog. She did not speak to me either in voice or thought. She was just there. She was beyond what we might call someone here on earth physically beautiful. A sensed a presence of total and perfect peace. At first I did not recognize her, but then suddenly I did. It was my mother. I had never seen my mother look anywhere remotely like this, yet I knew it was her. She appeared ageless. You just can't explain it, it does seem to need explanation. NDE due to anaphylactic reaction to penicillin injection.

Renee NDE English expanded version 11/28/2007 I was comfortable but I knew consciously I was unable to swim so I questioned myself at the time and thought "How could this be?" I felt as thought I was breathing because there was no effort to do anything but feel . As if I was out of body but still looking from my own eyes. I was unable to feel temperature. I remember the blissfulness of the blue and mixed forms of a lighter warped like. I felt like a I was a fish. Happy . In wonder as if I was privileged to be experiencing it. It wasn't until I saw the movement above me from the surface of the water that waves of another environment was there . I saw the images of two people which were my sister and Lisa our neighbor. I awoke from that form of experience from the reality of knowing who those girls were and knowing it was where air was water wasn't and then I heard my sister's voice screaming " Where's Renee?" I was then pulled up by my hair and coughed that's all I can basically remember. NDE due to near drowning at around age 7-10.

Rosa R Probable NDE English expanded version 11/12/2007 From Peru. Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva I only remember this, that they turned me and "poof!", then, nothing else. Soon I saw myself in a dark tunnel, very near a super-brilliant light. When I saw the light, there were many people--very brilliant--dressed in white tunics with a rope belt who stretched their arms and called to me to get closer. They invited me with a force filled with love, tranquility, peace...that is, many lovely things which I can't explain with words, but that attracted me enormously; it was as if I were in ecstasy. I started to advance towards them very happily; I felt very happy and content....then, as I was about to "touch" their hands--that is to say, when I was about to pass the limit between the light and the tunnel, I remembered my children (I already had three; with the one that was just born, four) and I said: "No, I can't...and my children?" I stayed for a time standing there; I looked at them with sadness and I turned around, giving them my back, to return from "where I came" and then I awoke yelling: "I don't want to die; my children." NDE during childbirth.

Jools G NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 From the UK I remember the suffocating feeling of the asthma and next thing I realized that the panic surrounding this feeling had gone and I felt totally unaware of my physical body. I was falling down a well lined with the most strikingly white soft material I'd ever seen. I remember the wonderful feeling that there was nothing I could hurt myself on. I have no idea how long I was in this blissful state Before I got to the bottom I saw that the ambulance had arrived outside the doors to a & e. NDE due to asthma attack.

Arifur R NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 ...In front of my eyes appeared all the prophets of religious teachings; Christianity, Islam, Judaism, etc...And in the middle was a bright human shaped light...It spoke to me saying that it was God, I didn't believed it at first (who would), I asked 'it' "Who Are you?" And 'it' replied back to me saying "I am just like you, Lonely, Not wanted, Sad...I Have set forth countless members of humans on this planet, I've created these planets out of my own ability, I have created Prophets to explain my existence, but yet These humans that I have set forth deny my existence, they believe in others that have no existence"...I asked 'it' "why haven't you given them any chances?"...With a Reply so calm, 'it' said to me "Arifur have you not felt alone and not wanted? Have you not given up because you understand that people won't believe your existence, thus I am sure that when you return, and when you speak of this moment, whoever you speak with will not believe it, Let them believe what they want, for all I ask is Just for them to accept the fact that Another God exists, And just from that Belief I will be happy." NDE at age 14 due to auto accident. Experience shared at age 16. Remarkable dialogue with God.

Cyril C NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 I could SEE everything, then there was 2 nurses I could see their faces passing object to surgeon, remember the nurses faces were half covered but I could them...and the drilling began, I know started to leave the operating theatre, and YES into a TUNNEL, yes we have all heard of the tunnel, well it was pleasant trip because at end of tunnel I could hear children laughing and playing, but could not see them, the grass was so lush Green, not a weed in sight, then there was this dark shadow looking at me I didn't know who it was, but shape looked like my grandfather, I will never know, or maybe I will when my turn comes to die, it was so so so nice and peaceful in this place I started to go to a hill where im sure I would have seen all the children and people on other side, but then came this ENORMOUS but GENTLE hand that pushed me back and calming voice said you are not ready, next thing I can remember is going back into my body on the ward, the Priest had gone, but I was out for few weeks, then slowly but surely I was getting better. NDE due to brain abscess.

Malinda K NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 Normally, there would be absolutely no memory of what had transpired during the unconscious phase of a grand-mal seizure. But I actually do have a memory of this event and recall being an energy field, similar to the white garbled screen you would see when changing channels on a TV and finding no reception. A pulsing, constant motion of energy/electricity. And yes, I did say I WAS that energy, not that I only saw it and was drawn to it. I WAS it. I knew everything beyond our comprehension or my ability to communicate in words here. I was connected to all things, both seen and unseen, and had an absolute and intimate knowledge of them because I was them. I also felt an overwhelmingly insatiable desire to experience things with all the senses I had held as a human. I needed to touch, hear, see, taste, learn, and experience emotions. This is why I no longer believe in a separate omnipotent being called God. We ARE God. NDE due to grand mal seizure.

Gene J NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 It was extremely dark. I heard no noise. I was alone in total darkness. I seemed to be actually floating or in motion, in a direction. As I was slowly propelled forward through the stillness and black I began to notice a small light ahead. The light grew even larger and brighter and it soon surrounded me to the point that I needed to close my eyes again. It was an extremely bright white light, so bright that when I did open my eyes, I need to blink a few times and squint. I suddenly found myself standing alone; yes actually upright, in the middle of what was a large, ultra-bright, white glowing room. It was so peaceful and quiet that I didn't want to leave. I felt an overwhelming comfort here, a warmth-like I belonged here. Still partially squinting I began to feel like I knew everything. I had gained so much knowledge instantly, that I had no doubts or questions as to what was happening. NDE due to heart attack.

Stephen T NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 1. Surfing incident 2. Caught in a trough under water in huge surf. 3. Panic knowing I am going to drown. 4. Realized I had to give up, could not hold breath any longer. 5. Sudden calmness and resignation; loss track of body. 6. Clear and graphic life review as if certain events were cataloged. 7. Visualized a large green blue circle with a feeling of depth but did not look like tunnel. 8. Suddenly found myself in a large hall with a stone bath being washed by humanoid aliens; very peaceful (this was certainly a subjective illusion). 9. Sudden transformation into a realm of timeless Absolute Beauty, Absolute Love and Absolute Infinity. The radiance was literally unbearable. 10. Absolute forgiveness, non-judgment, non-duality, timeless, no blame or retribution, no sin karma and no reincarnation. No God as there was no subject or object of attention I AM That. 10. Beyond science, religion, spirituality, new age phantasmagoria. This is the most real insight of my whole life and clearly remains with me after thirty years. NDE due to near drowning. Remarkable insights and processing of NDE.

Rita B NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 As I approached this living light, I heard a male voice, very authoritative, thunderous, larger than life say to me, "Are you ready to die?" I was totally taken aback! I didn't know that meeting with, reaching this, going beyond this all revealing light was actually a (death) dying! I immediately found myself, simultaneously thinking and responding, "Ready to die?" "Why must I die?" I was very scared. Immediately the "Voice" replied, "You must die, because you have failed to do what you promised us that you would do." I was even more mystified, confused and unbelievably afraid. I responded, begging for my life, "I don't remember what I promised, I don't know why I must die, please give me another chance, I don't remember what I promised to do." The VOICE answered me by stating the following: "You promised us that you would help others. You have failed to do this." Exceptional Account! Two NDEs that happened in India. NDEr is from India. First NDE remarkably transcendent and due to operative complication. Second NDE from near drowning.

Orson H NDE English expanded version 11/10/2007 From the Azores. Asthma attack with closure of the breathing passages which occurred just as the ambulance I was in arrived at the hospital. I remember the ambulance attendant slapping my face and saying "Come on boy! You're going to make it" Then everything went black. In the urgency department I still heard a nurse saying "Ha mais um batimento para suportar a vida" = "There's still one more beat supporting life. Here comes the spooky bit...I was in a fast-moving stream just approaching some rocks at the edge of the falls I was about to go over. I could see the vegetation on the opposite bank in vivid autumnal colors. The water was warm and I was very comfortable and not a bit scared. Then it ceased before I was about to go over the edge. I still feel a slight feeling of disappointment that I did not "shoot the falls"! NDE from asthma attack. Shared at age 88.

Bonnie S NDE English expanded version 11/7/2007 They found something abnormal on the right side of my heart which they wanted to do the cath procedure, as I was having it done that is when I had the near death experience. It was so amazing, I felt the warmth and seeing the light so bright I think it would blind the human eye. I wanted to go see my kids to let them know everything was ok, I saw my son he was sleeping, then I went and saw my daughter, she was at work, I saw she was sitting at a long table doing envelopes in a medical office. I know she felt my presents, I touched her shoulder, the sad thing is I felt no sadness, all I felt was love and warmth. I then saw my Mom standing there smiling at me she did not have her hands out to welcome me. I was still able to see everything going on in the hospital, I saw the doctor using the paddles and my body just lying there, I saw the nurse moving fast around the table (she was screaming in my face Bonnie Breath, Bonnie Breath) and then the same nurse's surgical cap fell off her head which she ended up kicking under the table. I was told by a male's firm voice to go back, and that is when I felt the last shock to the chest, which was very painful. NDE due to complication of cardiac catheterization.

Mike S Probable NDE English expanded version 11/7/2007 What I did experience was being back at my grandpa and grandma's farm. I was younger, more like a teenager. I also communicated with a couple of my uncles who have passed away already. I also remember seeing my grandma and grandpa, but not really talking to them. Everyone was younger. Again, I'm just starting to share my experience. NDE where the experiencer is struggling to make sense out of what happened.

Sherri B NDE English expanded version 11/7/2007 As I lay there, the first thing I was in a white fog and what looked like my dad motioning with his arm and telling me "To go back, go back it is ...", I looked down over to the right (in the way he was motioning me,} then no I came to in the middle of Briggsmore. to people commenting "Oh, she's dead. Yeah she's dead." I believe it was my dad because he had long hair, a long beard, and what I believe was the brown suit he was buried in. NDE due to auto accident.

Vito P NDE English expanded version 11/7/2007 When I spoke to my mother , I told her I was going to die....at this time my vision became blurry and then just stopped. I told my mother I couldn't see anymore. this is when the Dr. took the phone and said they had to do emergency exploratory surgery. My hearing was never effected, even at the time of blindness. Then it was as if I had lost all fears and pain, and felt as if I had this incredible feeling of energy and alertness. My vision came back, except I was not in my body anymore. I was above it, while they rushed me to the OR room. The feeling could not really be defined as if I was floating or hovering, it was if I was just moving along freely. There were no restrictions on my movement, my earthly body was not holding me back. I remember staying in this state throughout most of the surgery. NDE due to auto accident at age 17 with ruptured spleen.

Ray V NDE English expanded version 11/7/2007 I saw my paternal grand father in heaven. He was horseback and saddled another horse. It was a solid white horse, a beautiful beast. Though my grandfather didn't speak, I knew it was for me. I felt a presence of others, though I don't know who. They were all familiar and happy to see me. I was very pleased to be there. It was like being at a party for me and we were all gathering to go some where. I don't remember going there. But I remember waking up in the hospital with my family around me and wanting to go back. If I could just go back I wouldn't hurt. NDE due to accident.

James R NDE English expanded version 10/17/2007 After following my older cousin into the pool the air was knocked out of me, I couldn't swim and I took in water. Vividly remember watching myself bobbing in the middle of the (3D) pool as Craig fished me out. I was separate from my body standing at my head as they performed 60's style resuscitation. 2 dark bodies were having an argument about my presence. Yes, no maybe. there was something important I had to do. Child drowning NDE.

Annie NDE English expanded version 10/17/2007 From Australia It was like a meeting with the great intelligence - the dew on the grass, the sky at daybreak, the enlightened one. Great light which I became one with. Total and utter peace and serenity. Pure love - unconditional love, pure omnipotence, pure comparison, a sinless intelligence, knowing this intelligence was beyond what I was. It is something which would take many lifetimes to achieve. Total rapture, a feeling of pure joy. Didn't want to leave it. I am part of this intelligence even though I know this intelligence is pure knowledge and sinless, yet I am a sinner. My body is not my soul. Felt my soul separate - sorry hard to describe. Soul has different mission and can communicate differently - bloody hard to explain.

Ron C NDE English expanded version 10/17/2007 A rushing sound as I lost consciousness followed by blackness/silence and the realization that I was not where I had been a moment ago. A feeling of incredible loneliness until I felt that I was no longer alone. It's then that I realized that I was probably dead. I saw a glimpse of a being of light who I was embarrassed to look at. I knew I had to return and expressed a "do I gotta?". NDE from accident

Linda Sue C NDE English expanded version 10/17/2007 I am a Diabetic. For years I wondered why I never experienced any "life after death experience, because I have been close to death several times. On this occasion, I dropped rapidly and my husband could not bring me back. I remember looking down at myself standing in a field of flowers. I saw myself younger. I started to pick a flower when I turned and looked up in the air and heard a voice say, "Linda you can't stay, you have to go back". Then I woke in my husbands arms. NDE from diabetic reaction.

Evan D NDE English expanded version From Australia 10/17/2007 As I was floating I was just transfixed at just looking at myself (it is a weird feeling looking at your own body) I had a bad cut on my head and blood was coming out of me very quickly. I felt so warm and peaceful it's a hard feeling to describe and I also felt no pain. You don't realize how match pain you live with everyday until you have an experience like this. Then my whole life was played out for me. It was like watching a video on fast forward. I seen myself being born then it seemed to just stop for a fraction of a second every now and then at things that happened, like my first day at school. Then it was over in what seemed like just a second or two. Then a voice said to me "Do you want to live or die?". NDE from car accident.

Virginia F NDE English expanded version 10/17/2007 I left my body and could hear the nurses and doctor working on me. I did not look behind me to see them, I was headed for a window where a cool Oct. fall breeze was coming in, and I knew that if I reached that window, that I would never come back. Then a being appeared, Angel like and reminded me of the Husband and Son that would never see me again and the Daughter that would never know her Mother. ( and I did not know I was having a girl) Then when I felt this profound love for my family, it was like a rubber band that snapped me back into my body of pain. I had a choice to go or stay. But, I think that when I came to the choice of love and understanding of what this being was showing me, that's when it was understood what my choice had to be. When I was out of my body there was no pain just profound peace and love. I knew that I was going to a place that was beyond any thing a mortal could imagine. I do not to this day fear death in any way. And as a retired Nurse, I shared my story with those at the door of death to help their journey of crossing over easier. NDE from allergic reaction to medication during childbirth.

Willis S NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 The pain was suddenly gone. I found myself in a dark void. No light. Slowly in the center of the void I became aware of a change in color. The darkness had a pin point of grey. The grey slowly became white. This white spot began to grow. It was like this white area was 3D. It was rising out of the void coming directly towards me. I see it as either a volcano, or a pimple, not other way to put it. It was not a tunnel. The white area continued to rise toward me. I got the impression that the white area was swelling from internal pressure. As it came closer I felt that I could almost touch it. The most important thing was the feeling that the internal pressure was reaching a bursting point. Somehow I knew that if the white area burst all of the void would be replaced with an intense, warm, bright light.

CJ NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 THE WALLS ROTATED SLOWLY IN A CLOCKWISE MOTION. A PALE YELLOW LIGHT FILLED THE TUNNEL. NO SOURCE WAS NOTED IT WAS JUST THERE. AS I CAME TO THE OPENING I COULD SEE IT WAS A LONG TUNNEL. THE PALE LIGHT BECAME MORE GOLDEN THE FURTHER DOWN THE TUNNEL YOU LOOKED AND WAS SO BRIGHT AT THE FAR END IT OBSCURED FURTHER VIEWING. THE LIGHT HAD A GENTLE. FRIENDLY QUALITY

Christine NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 There was intense pain and suffering and then release...followed by pure ecstasy...I did not see any light ever, at any time. I was in a "nothingness", a blackness or a void, and I was alone as in I didn't see anyone else, but I didn't feel alone because I felt unity with everyone and everything. I knew without even a hesitation that everyone and everything in the entire universe is connected into one; that we are each a part of everything...I knew that I was eternal (and I remember being so thankful to discover that eternity is true and has never been a lie or myth) and I remember thinking, "Oh my God, I am dead!!!!!! and I remember thinking that it was the most beautiful thing that could have ever happened to me...the happiest day of my entire existence...there was nothing sad about it like I always thought there would be. The only emotions I felt were pure joy, ecstasy and bliss at receiving the knowledge of immortality. It wasn't a feeling or a thought...it was a knowing. And, I remember thinking how I could not wait to tell my husband that we really would be together for an absolute eternity! And I remember thanking God over and over again that eternity is real.

Geraldine Probable NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 Remember moving slowly through a circular feeling space that was surrounded by darkness/knew that I could not go out of the space /seemed bright but there was a brighter source of light that I knew I had to go towards/as got closer everything got faster/was at first afraid but then started seeing faces on edge remember looking at them and finally having sense of knowing one who gave me feeling of well-being that everything was alright/as got closer to light source there was feeling of great joy around and in me/but then could not stay/was not finished and had to go back/seemed that was told this by the familiar face with great sorrow/I was also very sad/when came back I remember crying hysterically/took time to calm down/way back was very fast/trying not to/and then suddenly there.

Willane T NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 I heard the security guard say, There she goes and my body fell to the ground. The ambulance pulled up and I could see the putting me in the back. I was seeing it from the same vantage of standing by the car. As they pulled away I began to dissolve and went off into energy fragments which no longer had thought. I awoke at the hospital where the doctor accused me of faking a seizure to get attention. NDE from seizure.

Doris A NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 During the 8 minutes when I was unconscious, I observed (from an aerial position) details of what occurred. I saw where I was and who was there and what was done to me. I felt a feeling of peace that is hard to describe in words. I was not afraid and felt only like an observer. I did not necessarily want to come back to that body which was convulsing. I only remember a feeling of unexplainable peace and serenity and had no cognition of a material body, nor did I care. It did not last too long but I remember it vividly. NDE from cerebral hemorrhage.

Shawn J NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 A sense of serenity began to engulf me and I all of a sudden I was floating through the universe and being gently brought along by a being to my left. It was sort of being carried and gently brought along. The universe was vast and stars were such as you would see out in the countryside with no city lights to dim your view. I continued on this journey for a period of time that I cannot measure. Eventually, I began to see a light in the distance which became more brilliant the closer I got to it. The light was like no light I had ever seen up to that time and have not seen since. The being on my left continued to gently bring me toward the light. Little by little I came closer and closer. Eventually, I was completely engulfed by the Light and became one with it. There are no words in any human language that can describe the complete sense of peace and love imparted by that Light. It was such that I did not want to be apart from it. It was where I wanted to stay for eternity. I am convinced that I was given a glimpse of the nature of that which we call God.

Jeanette NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 I inhaled this type of gas (that has the potential I found out later of freezing your lungs instantly). I just went black. I don't even remember going out. The next think I remember is "standing" in the middle of a vortex tunnel with a person in silhouette standing at the end of the tunnel. I would say the tunnel was approximately 30 yards. I could not see the face but he/she wore a garment that was very loose and flowing to his/her right. The tunnel was interesting because it was swirling with all pastel colors. The person at the end had their arms stretched out to me. I remember not really feeling scared, but more confused as to where I was. The last thing I remember doing is looking down to see that I was "levitating" in this standing position, but that the tunnel was circling under my feet about 10 feet down. The circumference of the tunnel I would estimate to be about (it's hard to remember) 20 feet high. I was really beautiful. No words were spoken. No movement of air. No sensation of any temperature at all (neither warm nor cold). That was it. I came back and I was fine -- although a little shaken to say the least. NDE from inhaling CO2 cartridges.

David L NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 The reason I am writing you is that at one point I had a lot of pain and remember the "room around me" was bright white. I knew I was in pain, but was trying very hard to recite the Lord's Prayer. I distinctly remember being irritated because someone "did something" that interrupted my prayer. I started the prayer again. During this time I saw my recently deceased mother's face and I think she spoke to me. Beginning of a NDE

Malina E NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 Although I couldn't see anything, I could also sense other beings around. I could feel the pain of my tongue being pulled on. I think I felt as I was being tortured and I felt evil surrounded by the torture. After this sensation, my surroundings changed. Now I felt like I was in a void. I wasn't experiencing any pain anymore. I think this is when I started to die. I felt like I was slowly floating downward in a dark tunnel. I wasn't afraid anymore. I actually felt at peace. I don't recall that I was dying at the time, just felt good inside. It was a very pleasant feeling. But I never saw a light and I don't even recall when I came out of it. I know I don't remember telling my friend I was dead. I might have been started to become aware of things when in the ambulance. NDE from seizure.

Olivia C Possible NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 He then showed me several thousand visions at once. The only way to describe this particular experience is to have a handful of beads, drop them onto the floor at one time, and as fast as they all hit the floor at once is the speed in which the visions came to me. I don't remember anything about any of these visions except the first one. I was instantly standing on a mountain top next to Him, which side I don't have any memory of. We were looking down on a valley with another mountain on the other side of it. The valley seemed to be at least 10 miles away. There were people scattering back and forth in preparation of something of great importance (I don't recall what) that was about to happen. I immediately noticed my vision, my ability too see. Advanced is an understatement. For one, the color of the trees and the grass was a brilliant green that I've never seen before and haven't since.- and I could see small details, even though I don't recall any. I can only remember thinking I could see small things miles away on the right of me and the left of me at the same time.- in great detail. Severe Fever.

Dustine S NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 I was visited by a 'light being' of some kind, I think we would call her an angel, but I'm not sure. She was an adult, not young but not old either. She had long straight blonde hair. She wore an unbleached cotton garment with a simple rope-like tie at her waist. I don't know how I knew it, but I knew she was barefoot and her garment was about ankle length. I couldn't see her from her knee area down. But I know she was barefoot. The most remarkable physical attribute were her eyes. She had large eyes that were the most intense blue, like a sky blue topaz but more intense. She stood next to my bed and without speaking we communicated. She explained she had come for me, that "I could go with her and it would be okay." And if I wanted to "roll over and die", that was okay too. I told her I thought there must be a reason for my state and would stay to find it. I didn't want "to have to come back and do it all over." 3 NDEs

Tammy C NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 I also remembered that in the midst of my accident the day before I was visited by a radiant woman who "told" me that I would be okay. I did not remember feeling any pain when I was with her, just confusion because there was nothing around us and I didn't know what had happened to me or why I was there with her. She communicated with me without speaking audibly but "impressed words and feelings" on me. That is the best way that I can explain it. I remember thinking, "What happened?" and it was if she answered my thoughts by "telling" me. "Don't worry about that. You are okay. You will be okay." I felt complete trust in what she said and an intense feeling of peace, too. There were also other people there and although they didn't look familiar I knew that I did know them somehow. They also were "sending" feelings of peace and welcome, "telling" me (again without words) that I would be OK. Teenager in a car accident.

Priscilla W NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 Then suddenly everything went black. The next thing I remember is looking down at all these people hovering over me working with me to breathe with some pattern breather. Almost immediately this door opened up and everything was so bright and it was beautiful. My grandfather whom I called Paw Paw was standing there looking at me with this huge grin on his face. I started to walk towards him, because I wanted to hug him for he had been dead for 3 yrs at this time. Well right before I got to this door he said no not now and shut it on me. Then I woke up there on my hospital bed still gasping for every breath. What I had was double acute pneumonia that was from me vomiting during my DNC. I should have been a goner that day, but my Paw Paw told me it wasn't my time. I am very thankful for that, because now I am a 29 yr. old mother to 3 wonderful kids. I now look at death with a smile, because I know where I am going, and I know it is a beautiful place. Kind of like a big old family reunion. I want to say that I am glad that there is a place to discuss my brush with death for I have never told my family about this. NDE from childbirth complications.

Donna D NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 Have received scientific knowledge that I would not ordinarily have known....I have constantly been on a spiritual quest since this experience...Receive an abundance of spiritual energy at twilight RISP - Recurrent Isolated Sleep Paralysis....Felt as if I traveled through a "wormhole" or tunnel...Einstein-Rosen Bridge....These entities are helping us fix things by expanding our awareness, which is the source of our predicament we find the planet in. At some moment I did answer Yes to Something or Someone-and from that hour I was certain that existence is meaningful and that, therefore, my life in self surrender had a goal....We are inflicting unwelcome changes on the planet which is really not ours...we are killing it....our planet is dying....Time is critical.....ACT NOW....SETI WIMP TOE LIGO - On a mission from God...Galaxy Quest......Save the Pale Blue Dot - Mindshift - Blue shift - Visual Ray Theory- Third eye - tesseract - 4 + Aktis Ray (gamma) Actin...At times a Spirit comes and takes me away.....Dreams work....Remain open at the top....just don't kmow....just don't know.....God is infinite, supernatural, God is Spirit... Left temple hit with baseball.

Michele W NDE English expanded version 10/16/2007 Once I was in the emergency room of the hospital, I felt further from my body. I remember looking at my self when they were trying to get my families phone number.........at first I was more than 4 feet from my body, towards my feet and above the heads of the staff, then as my body was trying to remember the number, I got closer to myself, like I was whispering it in my own ear. Sometimes I was there with my physical body, other times I was floating in the darkness (maybe I did not want to see what was going on). I do not remember seeing my body after they got the phone number from me. I floated in the darkness with my own thoughts for a few days then I woke up in my own body. NDE from auto accident

Ken A NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 The light is love. It is our real home. There we realize the connection.. . . I remember that everything was OK with one exception. I thought, "What a fool I was to have spent the time I spent accumulating those things". What was meant by that was that I needed to concentrate on the things that were important. I have succeeded in doing that. 2 NDEs and many unusual things that happened afterward.

John B NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 THEN I SAW A SMALL DOT OF LIGHT THAT WAS GETTING CLOSER AND CLOSER UNTIL THE DOT EXPANDED INTO A ROOM ON THE OTHER SIDE. THERE WERE NO WALLS TO SPEAK OF AND THERE WAS OTHER ACTIVITY GOING ON BEHIND THESE GLOWING HUMAN FIGURES THAT WERE HOODED. I COULDN'T MAKE OUT FACIAL FEATURES BUT SAW A SILHOUETTE OF THEM. THERE WAS THIS UNUSUAL LIGHT EVERY WERE THAT SEEMED TO COME FROM NO DIRECT SOURCE. WE (ME AND THE FIVE OF THEM) STARTED TO COMMUNICATE WITH OUT VERBAL SPEECH. I FELT AS THOUGH I WAS PLUGGED IN TO EVERY THING AND COULD SEE AND HEAR THROUGH MY CONSCIOUSNESS AND THEY ASKED ME IF I WANT TO STAY OR RETURN. I IMMEDIATELY SAID I WANT TO GO BACK. THAT I WOULD DO WHATEVER THEY WANTED ME TO DO, JUST SO I COULD RETURN. I WASN'T FEARFUL AT ALL IN FACT I NEVER FELT SO WONDERFUL BEFORE. NDE from car accident.

Kelly K NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Asked nurse if I was dying.......Then saw me body on table/Floating above. Could describe equipment and conversations of nurses and Dr. Not scared. Sort of detached. Almost clinical. Thought "HMMMM I must be dying.......then I remembered my new baby and prayed Please let me stay. I have a new baby. I remember feeling the transfusion in my veins and the blood was very cold, like ice water.....and I was back. NDE from childbirth.

Norton J NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 From England Awareness was natural, yet totally non-human. Nothing from that experience actually fits into my human imagination, and the only imagery I have is what my mind can cope with in translation. Even as I write this, I can feel myself trying to shy away form it, and this is taking a lot of effort. There was a sense of self, of identity; it was no different from the very human self-image we all have and accept every day of our lives. There was a sense of relief in me that it was all over, so this is what it's like. Thought, sight, hearing and touch - our senses as we know them - simply didn't apply, this was different; for my experience of it, I knew that I had died although I had not gone through the classic out-of-body experience, and there was no fear involved, no wonder, simply the purest acceptance of my circumstances. NDE from being run over by a car.

Jason DH NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 BUT let me be clear it was my choice to come back ONLY BECAUSE; 1.) I had been assured that this is my last time here, he had my book of life with him and we sat at a table with my book on the table, the writing went back to front, like Hebrew, he held up a few pages on the top saying, "This is Jason you have only this much to finish then you can come home to stay, your book is finished." Then he went on to tell me of something I still need to do (Which I was not allowed to remember) and told me of great benefit and need that caused the one more thing to do to be instilled in me as so needed for mankind that of course I would come back to do that one more thing before returning to stay. NDE from criminal attack

Ira D NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Died . Got forgiven past errs. Entered World of White . Was Washed over with Something Soothing Cleansing Fantastic . Could I stay where I was ? YES . Concerned about those Left behind . Could I go back for a short time ? Yes. More that would have to be explained . Short NDE from heart attack.

Steven C NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was in this void of darkness & without hope, & I spoke. I said "where am I", I could hear the words. A great love came down & saved me & lifted me up; I was going to perish; I was in deep deep trouble. All I had to do was except it, in your wildest imagine you cannot believe how good JESUS is. He spoke and said to my ears "Do you believe I created the universe?" & I said "yes". I was taken above the water & ground & I had the mind of CHRIST; I was in the family of the FATHER. Child drowning NDE at age 3 or 4.

Clark Possible NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I overdosed on pills, and rather than slowing my system down they sped it up. I had a seizure and there was a 8 hour time period where I was blacked out. If anybody out there has read Dream catcher by Stephen King, I found out what if felt like to be Jonsey kind of. I was conscious though I saw or heard nothing, and I felt at peace with everything. I guess at one point the doctors said my heart rate was at 180. I saw nothing but darkness, but felt total serenity. NDE from suicide attempt.

Pat H NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 The next thing I knew I was floating among the clouds in a blue sky. I remember feeling so free, content and happy like being born again. I knew everything that was around me although I didn't see any limbs or torso or even eyes, I just knew. Also I remember that at the time I had no memory of who I was or what I was and that all I wanted to do was to continue to fly among the clouds. Then suddenly I saw a large circle of light in the distance, I was curious at first but as it drew closer I had a recollection of the sun which if I look directly into can damage my eyes and I turned away from it which seemed odd because I didn't know where that came from. My curiosity got the better of me and I looked directly at the circle of light. The circle was getting bigger and was drawing me to it. NDE from drug overdose.

Evan K NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 First thing I experienced was a large flash of light (figured it was impact of guard rail), then darkness (unconsciousness). About 1/2 hr later walking around dazed then entered a seizure type fit. I saw myself on ER table but couldn't feel or hear anything, then everything turned into a great void of light with a sense that I cannot explain. Have never yet felt that feeling. When finally woke up over 4 Hrs. had past and was being told that during that time I didn't know where I was, who I was or what the date was. Shortly after I discovered bumps or scars on the palms of my hands which look like round half pea size dots, one is outwards and the other inwards. If I scrape them off they come back the next day. NDE from car accident.

Gwen NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I found my self in a black void. The difference was flashes of vivid light bars. I felt myself walking on them, from one to another always moving forward. The colors were magenta, turquoise blue, fuchsia, lemon yellow and iridescent orange and purple. I finally woke up in the surgical room still talking. I knew I lost some time. NDE from exploding brain tumor.

Grzegorz K NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 From Poland, Translated to English by Matteuz. fter some time, a woman appeared. I can’t remember if we talked. At one point, a light door appeared in the wall and the woman asked me to come with her through it. We were to be back soon. I agreed because I trusted her. We went through the door. On the other side, she was no longer there. Everything looked like an underground factory (I cannot describe that place, but I guess a factory is what it felt like. There were a lot of people there. They were running naked in all directions. I just sat and observed them. The couldn’t see me or they just didn’t pay attention to my presence. Some time passed and I wanted to find exit. I wasted a lot of time and didn’t find anything. I was getting upset and angry and lost consciousness. When I regained it, I was still In that factory, but there were no people this time, just the women that took me there. She said I would stay there (I think the communication was telepathic, we didn’t talk in the usual way). I felt deceived. She had said we were going to come back. Atypical NDE from brain hemorrhage.

Ginny B Probable NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 One night the dots started up again and I found myself out of my body, completely pain free and floating above my body in the corner of my bedroom. I remember thinking that I was going to leave now. I felt glad about that, to leave the pain behind. I didn't want to stay. Just as I was about to set off away from there I saw my mother come into the room. She knelt by my bed and prayed and cried. Her beseeching tears touched me deeply. She prayed that I should be healed. I realized that she really did love me. I guess I'd not been sure of that before that moment. I remember deciding to return and give it a go. NDE as a child from severe infection.

Karina M NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I went into insulin shock, convulsions and then nothing (no movement) (This according to my ex-husband). I could see a hard to describe 'void' because I could 'see'. I saw no light, no deceased people (known or unknown). I somehow 'received' the understanding (the message? It was not a voice.) that if I died right there and then, my 8 month old son would be okay and that my parents would be okay in the long run. I had the certainty that the world (my world) would be okay without me. That my son would grow up healthy and well (he did), and that my parents would survive the pain of my loss. I accepted dying and was willing to let myself go (that's when I felt a weight lift). As I was 'returning' (my ex-husband shoved about four tablespoons of sugar in my mouth), I felt a 'sucking' pull taking me back (I did not 'see' my body from the ceiling or anything that was going on around my body). NDE due to accidental insulin overdose.

Katie A NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 When I died, I rose above my body and saw my grandfather working on my body. My body was of no interest to me; instead I moved out of the room towards a presence I felt in the living room area. I went towards this presence, which was within a brilliant, sun-light bright, light space - not a tunnel, but an area. The presence was unbelievable peace, love, acceptance, calm, and joy. The presence enveloped me and my joy was indescribable - as I write this I am brought back to this emotion and it delights me still. The feeling is spectacular. I did not experience this presence as God (I was too young to understand the concept) but I did experience this presence as that which made me. I knew, with out a doubt that I was a made creature, a being that owed its existence to this presence. NDE at age 3 from choking. Profoundly influential experience, and is now pursuing a Doctorate in Theology.

Catherine A NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was up in the air in the operating room. I could see the doctor and the nurse anesthetist down below me and I knew that was my body down there on the operating table. I was going around in circles. They would get smaller and smaller. When I got to the center of the circle, I would pop out and start another circle. I got up in the corner of the room. I wanted to go out of the room and see what was on the other side. At that point a male adult voice said to me, "You better get back down there ." That was all I remembered. My mother told me later I came out of the anesthetic that I almost bled to death during the operation. NDE from bleeding during surgery at age 7, shared 65 years later. She is a retired nurse.

Don T NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I continued floating upward and became a little frightened. I noticed I was sort of curled up and that I felt very good (much better than when I was in the chair). Finally, I realized I was in the presence of some beings that were very loving. While there seemed to be a main being the others were free to communicate also. I was shown the history of the planet and other things that I lost almost immediately. I think I remember asking if I could tell people about the secrets I'd scene. They made me understand that I would forget the secrets very quickly (and I did). I then was told that I could stay with them if I liked and have a "rest" but that I wasn't finished. They said if I stayed I would have to go back eventually. I understood this as going back in another body and starting all over. I told them I would go back and immediately felt being drawn back down to the chair where my body was waiting. NDE due to blood loss after surgery at about age 9.

Raven R NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 … I LOOKED DOWN ON THE EMTs TRYING TO REAWAKEN ME I POPPED UP IN TO A SURROUNDING THAT WAS WHITE MIST CLOUD, I SAW WHITE GRANITE STRUCTURES ILLUMINATED BY THE INSIDE OUT. I SMELLED ROSES, HONEYSUCKLES, VANILLA ORANGES, CINNAMON, MYRRH, AND MORE ALL ROLLED IN TO ONE FRAGRANCES. THE FLOWERS WERE SURREALISTIC, LIGHT AND BRIGHT OR DEEP AND COMFORTING. THEN IT HAPPENED. I FELT A HAND ON MY RIGHT SHOULDER, AS I TRIED TO TURN TO LOOK, THE VOICE WAS A MANS VOICE THAT WAS SOFT, CALMING AND CREAMY HIS HAND WAS LIKE A AURORA BOREALIS, LIKE IN ALASKA, YOU COULD SEE THE SHAPE BUT THE SKIN WAS CRYSTALLINE OF ALL COLORS, LOOK LANKY FINGERS, MEDIUM WRIST HE SAID, RAVEN, YOU CANNOT STAY THIS IS NOT YOUR TIME, YOU NEED TO GO BACK NOW I SAID I JUST GOT HERE, WHO ARE YOU? HE SAID "YOU KNOW WHO I AM" I SAID "GOD", HE SAID YES. NDE due to heart attack.

Jerry S NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I thought I had acid reflux. On the third day the pain moved to my shoulders and I had trouble breathing. I was sitting on the couch and all of a sudden I was no longer in my house I was standing on this side walk looking into this very bright light but the light did not blind me. I was not walking towards the light I just stood there. A older man walked past me slowly. There was no sound it was completely quiet. I had the strongest feeling of loneliness. I was back in my house again and I new it was serious so I called 911 to get help. I made it to the hospital the doctor told me I had 3 blockages and only 30% of my heart was working. I was on the verge of death. NDE due to heart attack.

Simon J NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I remember walking up to the grocery store where it happened then collapsed and then absolutely nothing. I was in a complete and utter void. Later, I remember being in the emergency room in the hospital and seeing myself from a third perspective. I could see them moving me from the gurney to the operating table. I could hear them saying don't leave us John, don't leave us.. and them working frantically to resuscitate me.... NDE due to burst aorta (the largest artery in the body).

Valerie H NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Suddenly I can see again, but from a different angle, both episodes I was above to the left of my body looking down. I feel very different, I do not feel sick at all, I had no bad feeling what so ever. My mind thought HMM...HMM, HMM...HMM, HMM. I did not realize bad things were happening, I was like an innocent child humming. Even though I was looking down at my body and saw people working on me, I was not afraid, nor was I worried about my family. I could here the nurses calling my name but, I paid no attention to them, I didn't realize I was "VAL". I began floating backwards toward the open door to the hallway and into started into the hallway. There were two men walking in the hallway saying did you see any cables for this... I remember wishing I could help them. Then I could hear someone calling "VALERIE" and I recognized my name and started to listen to them say "come back to me, breath" and I did, then I was back inside my body and I felt sick again. NDE due to heart condition that can lead to dramatic drop in blood pressure.

Judy P NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 From Canada Next it felt like I was falling backwards out of my body. It happened very quickly. I found myself in complete blackness but I could see. I felt a peace like I never felt before. There are no words to describe it. I remember thinking to myself I'm really here, you do go on. I was still me, exactly who I was on the physical side. Then out of the corner of my eye I noticed the light. Oh there really is a light, I was so happy to discover this. I knew I had to go to light. As soon as I thought that, I started to move towards the light. As I got closer to the light, I could see a tunnel. I knew I had to go into this tunnel. The light became brighter and brighter, but it didn't hurt to look into it. It surrounded me and comforted me. I had absolutely no worries or fears. Just absolute peace. I stared to move through the tunnel. I was looking at the tunnel, noticing its color, shape and texture. Also I was aware presences at the end of the tunnel. NDE due to bleeding after childbirth.

Terre D NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Then suddenly I was whisked away, and felt simultaneously that I was caught in a stream of energy flowing around a planet below and to my left, and also within a giant tree on a hill and all its parts, from roots to leaves. At this point I knew I was pure energy. Infinite, because I could see the planet and was part of this powerful stream of energy, at the same time I could feel myself part of the peaceful, gentle energy of the tree. This stream of energy was fast and powerful, and looked like lights in a wide bright band out in space but curving around the planet, which was reddish. I could see other planets and stars, and the space between was black. As part of the tree I could feel every leaf rustling in the breeze. Then suddenly I was back in my body. NDE at age 7-8 due to childhood game of squeezing air out of chest to pass out. PARENTS- we have received a number of NDEs where this type of “game” caused the NDE. Warn your children that this type of “game” could be fatal.

James W NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 This was a non-experiential experience – the experience had no content so there was nothing to have an experience of in the classical sense that we understand “experience.” Something happened and according to outside observers it took time for it to happen. In the classic understanding of experience, I experienced nothing. I became purely subject and no thoughts exist in this Oneness. There exists only One and no other; this One always is and this One cannot be explained, understood, or experienced by the rational human mind. White light is what I remember and the simplest way I can explain the moment is to say, "I saw God." NDE at age 13 due to unknown causes, but apparent transcendent experience at time of physical unconsciousness.

Rhea D Probable NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Next thing I know, I was floating in the top of the room looking down on myself, my mom in the corner on a stool with silver legs. She was hiding her face in her hands because she didn't want to see them cut me. I saw two doctors leaning over me on the table. In an instant I was in a tunnel with a bright light at the end. I distinctively remember that I wasn't moving my feet and wondering how I could be advancing through the tunnel. When I got to the end of the tunnel there was a man in an all white tunic awaiting me. He never had to speak physically, but I could hear him and he could hear me he took me by the hand and we walked. I knew him although I had never seen him. He loved me, I loved him and I felt safe with him. This place that we walked was the most beautiful place that I have ever see. It was like a grassy, hilly place filled with flowers. The colors were so bright and vivid. It makes the greenest grass here on Earth look dirty. Probable (almost certain) NDE at age 4 as surgical complication, 28 years ago. It was more common in the past for doctors to avoid disclosing they had a serious surgical or anesthetic complication.

Peter M NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I stayed in my place thinking while my 2 cousins and my brother went away and I climbed the wall and jumped. while I was falling I saw a very fast movie for what I did at that time. after I hit the ground. I didn't feel anything then suddenly I saw myself falling down in a tortuous well. it was dark and I couldn't see anything but I was able to hear other voices. some voices was laughing or crying or speaking. some of them were falling faster than me. I was frightening and was trying to find anything to catch. I moved falling for a while. it was long well then I exit from the well to find myself standing at the beginning of a tunnel. there were someone who exit with me but it disappeared. I stayed at my place thinking for what to do. it was a long tunnel and the end of the tunnel there were a door without a door and outside this door there were a very bright light that shining the tunnel. NDE due to fall at age 5.

Lonna O NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was told (after the fact) that I was given a cocktail of drugs (Thorazine, Demerol, Scopolamine). I didn't remember having been given the drugs. I must have had a violent reaction to them immediately. My baby had not been delivered yet. I remember being up high in a corner of the hospital room, watching all of those people serving me being in a panic state. I saw myself lying on the bed, but, although I knew it was I, I wasn't the least bit concerned about it. It was in no way a part of me anymore. I kept saying, "please don't worry about me. I'm fine." I realized that they couldn't hear me. I felt so bad that they were in a turmoil when I was feeling fine. I felt free of all care, and yet I didn't feel dead although I didn't feel separated from where I would have preferred being. Two days later, I awoke inside of an oxygen tent. NDE associated with complication of childbirth. NDE happened 48 years ago.

Sammy O NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Tunnel (really just circular black border) with small pinpoint light in center. Scenes which I recognized as being from my youth, etc. being vividly portrayed - really in a continuous (sometime circular around the small light) fashion. I frankly thought that I was dreaming (being in the hospital bed) and was consciously trying to analyze what was happening. I thought it was an unusual dream with a very weird format (circular boundary). I mostly stopped paying attention to what was being portrayed and puzzled about the strange format. After what seemed a considerable time, the tunnel collapsed inward and the light exploded toward me. This apparently was when the code team shocked me. I then awoke to find 20-25 people (code team) in my room, and immediately realized what must have happened. NDE due to cardiac arrest from post-operative complication of heart surgery.

Theodosia Q NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Something took my hands gently and guided me through the maelstrom of colors. There was sound like music around me. I felt that I was one with the universe, walking through solar systems and galaxies. But in a final spin of lavender, I felt myself slipping into this mortal reality. I was on my back on the floor outside my apartment. My landlord who was also my friend had stopped by--apparently my husband had asked her to check on me--and found me in the bathroom. A strong effort by the EMT squad had gotten my heart beating again, and the paramedic closest to me said I had been gone for a good two minutes. NDE associated with miscarriage and medication overdose.

Thomas B NDE 3157 English expanded version 10/14/2007 G & I were very drunk when we decided to walk to an area of Hartford where drugs were available. We bought heroin and a syringe. After injection I fell head first down two flights of stairs. G, drunk as he was, put me in a bed and went about his business for an indeterminate time. He contends that when he came back later I wasn't breathing. He slapped me & dragged me upright at which time I regained consciousness. While unconscious, I viewed from above, as if near the ceiling, my seemingly dead body. My thought was that my parents would be devastated by my death and would have the embarrassment of having their neighbors and associates read about me in the Hartford Courant... NDE associated with alcohol and heroin use, then fell down stairs. Found not breathing.

Patricia M NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Arrived at the emergency room with such an intense headache. As I got placed into a bed, I was awake but everything became black. I heard someone yell for the Atropine. The next thing I know, I'm hovering at ceiling height, looking down on myself lying on the hospital bed. I could see I was wearing a blue and white hospital gown, and one of my legs was folded under the other. I felt myself drenched in a cold sweat. I appeared to be asleep or unconscious. I didn't see anything else in the room. but a calmness was with me. I don't know how much later I awakened, admitted into a hospital room. You must understand that before this experience I had a history of depression and anxiety, and had episodes of being homebound because I was so scared of everything in general. All that stopped with this episode. To say that this experience changed my life is not an exaggeration. I am very grateful. I feel very fortunate to be one of few that know that after your body stops, something (consciousness) continues. NDE due to medication reaction.

Terry B NDE v. Fear Death English expanded version 10/14/2007 I remember seeing the sunlight from above (through the water's surface distorted by the water) along with the sensation of not being able to get air and the water entering my mouth and nose while I was bouncing to try to get to the surface of the water. Then I remember experiencing everything I had done in my entire life with some kind of explanation of what had been done well and what I could have done differently. This part did not frighten me at all and was accompanied by a total lack of judgment, and a sensation of being totally accepted and cared for. I felt I was guided in this explanation by a mental personality who simply wanted me to learn from my life, about how I could be a better person in the future (though I saw no one and do not remember hearing voices or sounds other than what I or others had said in my past.) Experience at age 7. This remarkable experience is an example of the difficulty classifying experiences. There may not have been unconsciousness during the experience, so it may not have been a NDE. This was clearly a real and meaningful experience regardless of its label, and obviously in the spectrum of experiences as NDE.

Larry S NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 The next instant I was standing in a hallway or a breezeway. The lighting was dim and I could see a man ahead of me wearing a very nice business suit and overcoat. He was also wearing a nice hat like a successful business man would wear. I was sure I did not know this person but started to walk towards him. As I walked I remember telling myself, "don't forget this". Approximately half way to him, I had an uncontrollable urge to open my eyes. When I did, a nurse was in my face shaking and shouting, Larry Larry Larry. When she noticed my eyes open she told me in a relieved voice that they had lost me and had hit my chest and then shocked me twice to bring me back. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Amy C NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Gallbladder surgery botched, which lead to the surgeons ignoring the fact that I had bile backing up in my body cavity, which in turn was causing my organs to shut down one by one over a course of ten days. I ended up having over 19 pounds of bile in my body cavity when they decided to do something, and at this point I was almost dead… this is what I called the NASCAR of crappy during my experience, because every character flaw, inhibition, fear...pretty much everything crappy about me in life was put on the table and I was forced to deal with it. NDE due to post surgical complication.

Colin F NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 It has played a major role in the direction of my life. I think that what I got was a small glimpse of Hell. I think Hell is a moment of ultimate clarity when all of your life is laid out before you in stark realism. The wasted opportunities, the selfishness, the greed and unhappiness, all become clear and apparent for the first time. Hell for me was true realization of all that I had wasted, a life squandered. NDE due to head trauma at age 15. Disturbing NDE content, but was instrumental in him changing his life in a positive direction.

John H NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Next day threw the fat embolus and arrested. I watched myself from the ceiling as they moved me from my room to the elevator up to surgery and then waited for them perform my tracheotomy. I saw them take me back to my room where they proceeded to hook me up to a breathing machine which I remained on for three weeks. NDE due to respiratory arrest.

Bonnie B NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I lay down on the bed and stopped breathing and that's when I died. It was not a "near" death experience, it was death. I heard a loud buzzing and felt that I was in a total darkness and then I left my body. I didn't know at first that I had left my body; I was aware that I was floating above the bed, and that I was somehow very, very different. The first and most vivid sensation I had was that there was someplace I wanted, HAD, to go to, and I knew I had to get out of that room to be able to go. I went up, trying to go, but I was stopped at the corner of the room where the walls and ceiling met. I looked down and saw the bed covered with the canvas tarp, and Mother sitting on a chair beside the bed. Her purse was on the floor beside her chair. Her hands were folded in her lap and her head was down. NDE at age six due to complication of diphtheria. Shared 57 years later.

Robert O NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 Was given a blood thinner for clot and went into atria fibrulation and dies. Saw ethereal pastoral sky with a river of events flowing in front of me. There was a naked woman with long golden hair who when looked at would seem to make one of the scenes pop into view by itself. This naked woman had her nakedness hidden by her long flowing golden hair. I can only remember one of the events and that was a group of four men bare-chested playing conga drums while they rotated in the scene. There were several other events but I can not recall any of them. It was a fantastic experience and it made me totally unafraid of dying in the future. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Misty G NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 What I remember is standing up and the next thing I was in this pitch black void, all I could see was a slight appearance of my body with a yellow/gold aura. I felt this overwhelming sense of peace, I can not find another word that fits better. Kind of like everything has been took care of and you do not do anything but go along for the ride. There were no lights but my aura. No angels, stairways, friends, no sound at all, absolutely nothing to the point of fear only with peace. I know strange. Nothing but this black space with me right in the middle. I remember thinking where am I and right when I did (keep in mind this void also had the feeling of no time) It is hard to put into words I Sort of woke up and caught a blur of a female and what appeared to be a the inside of a ambulance. NDE due to narcotic overdose.

Quena Probable NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was sort of floating not over my body but I was bodiless. I was so happy and content and warm. I remember trying to fight them at one point to leave me be. I could hear them say breathe and I was thinking no I do not want to and I was fighting them to not breathe. I was so happy and comforted it was nothing like I had ever experienced before there was no fear. Prior to this I had a really deep fear of death and would avoid thinking about death. There was no light that I can remember or dead people I once knew. I then heard the nurse say she has been down for over ten minutes. I was like oh hmm I had no idea of time. I also remember thinking wow I always thought not breathing would be painful but I really did not want to breathe. Probable NDE vs. post operative drug (narcotic) reaction. Post operative respiratory arrest. Not sure if full OBE. Very frightening to her afterward.

Cynthi K NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 was connected with all of the other beings - the ones I saw there on the plateau - the ones that I did not see but were somewhere in the distance in the place that I had not yet traveled, near the light - and the ones that I had left behind on earth. Everyone. Everything. I looked back over my shoulder away from the plateau and I could see it all. I realized the reason for everything. I had all knowledge. I turned back to look at my greeter and she was still smiling at me. I saw everyone standing behind her and felt a sense of wonder and awe that can't be described. They were all smiling and nodding. They were happy that I understood. I felt an excitement, happiness and love that can't be expressed on this earth. I knew that I had to return to my life. I had no choice. There was no question about it. I could see what had to be done. NDE due to car crash.

Cindy M NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was riding behind a boat on an inflatable tube. This other girl and I fell off. I remember being underwater and my head hurting and was afraid I had hit my head on the other girls hip. My head hurt so bad I new I didn't want to pass out cause I was under water but all I could think about was the pain in my head. The next thing I remembered was seeing a crane and thinking someone had drowned and they were pulling them out of the water. When I was closer I saw a beautiful bright light. I looked into the water an could see the body and recognized it was me. I thought I couldn't of drown cause here was, I looked toward the light and saw a angle an she said it was time to go back. I didn't want too, I felt like I dropped down into my body. NDE due to boating injury.

Ina P NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was following the voice and it lead me to a cliff, all I could see was a little needle of light but the ledge was sharp I got scared but the voice commanded me to follow saying it would be ok. I fell off the cliff and felt like I was being wrapped in warm, peaceful blanket. While going through this light peace surrounds you and all anger, hatred, emotions leave until only peace exists. I kept falling going deeper into the light. When I finally hit I was at awe with it so beautiful; A golden gate so much peace. I had my left hand on a golden gate and I slowly open it. I had my right foot across. All of a sudden I heard my mom half way across the gate with my left foot in the air I turn away and I saw darkness then light then my body below And my mom crying begging me to come back yelling penny no… NDE due to fever associated illness.

Kathi B NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 So the thoughts came into my head: what kind of form or shape would make you most comfortable. “What do you mean?” I thought back. Some require me to take the shape of a wise old man, others a woman and still others an animal, all of different races, ages, sizes or species. What about you? I thought without hesitation “Human.”. With that the light began to simultaneously separate into amazing rays of color and intensify into a more solid form. Once the light reached the stage where it looked like a human form, a rather generic looking cookie cutter shape, like a gingerbread man, I thought, “That is enough, I am comfortable with this form.” The shape could move and was three dimensional. It was composed entirely of light and rays of luminescent color emanated from every part of it. I saw the color again, many years later when I first saw iridescent material. The feelings of safety, love and peace were even greater in its presence. We were still communicating through thoughts. NDE due to near drowning.

Steve T NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I was overwhelmed by the deep green color of the trees and grass. The grass was blowing from a gentle breeze. The grass was long, I would say about 10 -12 in. I was alone there but felt a spiritual presence watching over me. I had this relaxed feeling that I had completed everything I was to complete in my life. There was nothing else to do. No lists of things, like to-do lists. I had completed my tasks and now could rest. Rest in a way that is hard to explain. Rest with nothing coming up to do. No tomorrow, no next week, time in effect seemed meaningless. There was a rich blue sky and was quiet except for the sound of the breeze and rustling grass. I felt completely content and happy. Then I was, almost pulled away from this scene and started seeing the ceiling tiles in the ER room. I had trouble making sense of where I was and felt like I had fainted. The nurses were doing CPR on me and I started hearing them telling me to breathe. NDE due to hypertensive crisis and reaction to medication.

Lou P Probable C NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I had an out of body experience. It wasn't during an operation, it while I was in traction. I floated out of my body to the top of the room and then I floated into the hallway down to over the nurses station and I could hear them speaking. I was very, very scared and yelling at the top of my lungs HELP! HELP! but they couldn't hear me. The next thing I know, I was back in my body. Probable NDE from Professor.

Ada R NDE English expanded version 10/14/2007 I do not know how to describe.. that is the problem.. it was as if I was walking out in the universe with an infinite softness, peace, knowledge of my soul going on.. peace and more peace I loved it… The beauty, depth, serenity, infinite peace, wonder, space, what I saw.. how much I did not want to come back, not being able to get back. NDE due to post surgical cardiac arrest. Contributor is a Psychologist.

Irene A NDE English expanded version From Spain 10/14/2007 Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva I ceased feeling my body and saw some figures at my side; one of them was an aunt who had died; I don’t know who the others were. They were two or three other people. Then I felt that I was “suctioned” through a sort of tunnel and landed softly. Everything around was dark. I sensed that a figure approached, in front of me. By some method, I received the impression that I was unworthy of being there and I “closed” that part of my sight, but I was made to raise my sight. Then I saw the figure of a man who stood over a sort of stream. The water seemed to be made of light of liquid neon. I saw his feet, shod in some sort of sandals and [I saw] his attire. All was dazzling in him, he seemed to be made of light. I felt extremely good in his presence; full of an unconditional [and] absolute love. I knew inside of me that he was Jesus Christ (and I didn’t believe in him) and I was surprised. I said: “But you exist…!” He said: “Live,” and his voice sounded warm and sweet, but I didn’t want to return. NDE from Doctor in Spain.

Valerie K Other English expanded version 10/14/2007 As I neared the front of the line another soldier grabbed my arm and restrained me just before I reached him. Just then we heard the click. My friend had stepped on a land mine. The force of the explosion threw me backward against a tree. I screamed as blood splattered my body. The next instant found me again in the doorway of my apt. and I heard the sound of feet running as my friend and the two boys waiting for me came to see what had happened. They found me standing in the doorway with my hands braced against the door jam on each side. I had blood and dirt splattered on my clothes and face and my right shoulder was painfully swollen and turning black. It had been dislocated when I hit the tree. Among the most remarkable experiences we have received. OBE/ADC at time of friend’s death by land mine in Vietnam. Incredibly, she was covered with blood and dirt immediately after this experience, though she was living in America at the time.

Lonna C NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 I quit breathing and my heart stopped, my mom and dad called the dr. because they were scared, by the time he got there I was setting up in the corner of my bedroom seeing all that was going on behind me was a dark tunnel with a light at the end, I was so engrossed in what was going on in the room that I kind of ignored the light and all, as the dr. let my folks know that I was gone they started to cry it, was very hard to see for me at the time, so I prayed to go to them so they would stop crying, all of a sudden there I was on the bed looking up at them, it was so strange that I didn't tell any one for a long time. even when I did no one had ever heard of this before, years later I started to hear about NDEs NDE due to asthma attack at age 7. Declared dead. Shared 56 years later.

Pat P NDE 3197 English expanded version 10/11/2007 "I" went up into the sky. I had been feeling quite awful, lying on the couch at home when suddenly I found myself in the sky. I didn't question the fact that I was there. I just enjoyed it with the delight of any child. I found I could make any kind of movement I pleased and had no restrictions. I still had a sense of a body, but I could freely twist and turn any direction I choose. I was doing barrel rolls and big swoop turns, sky dancing. I came to a place of opalescent color all over the clouds. It was wonderfully pretty. Gold, lemon yellow, rose, orange, lime green, sparkling like pearlesence. Then a being came up to me and I must confess, in retrospect, that it looked exactly like the image of the father god I had been taught in school, but at the time I didn't think it was God nor know who it was. That's just what he looked like. He came up to me and in a kind of mind to mind transference of thought he rather shouted into my mind, "WHAT are you doing HERE NOW!?" Two NDEs. One at age 7 due to anaphylactic shock and the other as adult.

Donna M NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 From Canada I was very calm, I saw myself turn grey, heard the Doctor ask the nurses to get help. Saw my deceased father on my left side (who had passed away the previous month) It was an indescribable joy and so peaceful, I wanted to go with my Father. I did a life review in an instance. Then was given a clear message from a power that I could not see or hear, that it was not my time yet, and I was needed here to raise my children. The nurses kept telling me to hold my baby, later after the Doctor left they asked me what it was like? After telling my husband about it we agreed to speak to my Doctor about the event. I have never been afraid of death as I know there is no such thing as death. I felt it was extremely positive and feel it was a gift. I became a much better person due to this experience. NDE due to cardiac arrest at childbirth.

Diane S NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 From Canada When I woke up in the morgue, I was naked and paralyzed. The only available light came from the opaque glass window in a door. Two people stood in the doorway. a nurse holding the clothes I had had on and my brother in law. He said "do dead people cry'. The nurse looked at me and said "oh, my God". I passed out… When all the smoky being was inside my head I suddenly felt a big pop and I was outside my body. I could look down on my body from above. I wondered if I could go through the wall. I did. outside of the room was a long corridor. My mother, sister and brother-in-law were there. My sister said I wonder if we should stay. My brother-in-law said I will do whatever you guys want. My mother said well you know I don't like hospitals. If felt annoyed with them. I decided to go up the corridor to see what was there. Around the corner was a seating area. I got nervous about being away from my body. I decided to retrace my path. Back in the room I was amazed to discover the body was talking to two police officers. NDE due to accident shared 47 years later. Very mystical content.

Delia S NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 I went thought a tunnel that had these wonderful chimes. The tunnel was/or felt like pink cotton candy. It was very, very peaceful. At the end of the tunnel, there was a very bright {white/blue} light. I felt the presence of a wonderful being that told that I could not stay because I had to take care of children and my Mom and many others that would need my assistance. {at that time my children were small 9 and 13} When the doctors finally brought me back, I was crying and sobbing and felt very, very sad because I had left my real and true home. On December 27, 2007, it will be 25 years that I had this wonderful experience, and to date I remember it as if it had just occurred! NDE due to complications of severe blood loss.

Rhonda J NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 I was at total peace and without pain, floating, safe, comfortable, joyous. The sensation that I was feeling at that time goes beyond words. Then I became aware of a voice that told me that it was not my time, that I had things to do which were not completed, but that I would have the choice of dying or returning to my life. At that point it was as if my abilities to experience time were accelerated and together with this voice which I did not recognize nor could I even say it was man, woman, human or god, was with me as we reviewed my life. Then together we began to look at the things left undone. NDE due to cardiac arrest. Great insights into the inter-connectedness of all.

Phillip H NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 After stopping I could see a vehicle a long way to the north as we were facing east. It was a 35 Mile Zone so I had plenty of time to cross. But little did I know the other pickup was going 75 and was drunk. Though I was well over the center of the road, this man attempted to cross in front of me, and wound up hitting right where I was in the drivers side. I heard nothing and felt nothing. I found myself standing out side with a dark gray appearance the darkened the my view as I stared and the pickup and the flashing lights arriving from the left. That triggered my awareness of my brothers and I began to cry. "Where are my brothers. again and again--and in an instant I found myself with my hands up to my head, blood running into my eyes. I lost consciousness… Brief NDE at age 15 due to pickup crash. Shared 52 years later.

Rusty S NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 I was in a black space on a black nothing it was kind of like a path because it was lined with small lights close to ankle height that outlined a "path". As I proceeded down this "path" (not really walking but just kind of skipping from light to light) I would look into the small lights and see significant happenings in my life. I saw my birth, a few other things that are vague to me then I saw my enlistment into the army, my marriage and the birth of each of my daughters. I was not present at the birth of my first daughter because of military issues, but I saw it starting from a position to the right hand side of my wife about the waist area, elevated approximately 7-8 ft. The feelings that I had while proceeding down this path is one of accomplishment. Each light was like a level or stage in my life that I had completed or conquered. Many of the lights were small events that I cannot decipher if I recall them from this memory or from my cognitive memory. I reached the "end of the path" and in front of me was a large light entrance? NDE due to trauma involving head injury. Interesting life review where he saw birth of his child, yet he was not actually there in life

George R NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 As I laid in emergency at the Riverside County Hosp.. Being treated and getting stabilized. While I lied on an operating table I first experienced a sense of flying (or being weightless) Going nowhere in particular. In and out of what seemed to be unconsciousness. Than I actually sailed above my bed, enabling me to see down on myself on the operating bed and actually seeing the tops of everyone else's heads. Doctors, nurses, family members... What seemed to be about 15 to 20 feet high above everyone. And simultaneously, having a clear sense and mind of what was happening. Entered a real feeling of unbelievable calmness and sereneness, and peace. I was faced with the choice of going beyond (death). Or coming back and surviving the trauma and near death. I believe I chose not to go, or the choice was made for me, I'm not too sure of that part. Saw a bright light appear ahead of me, but never reached. NDE due to severe auto accident.

Sally A NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 I was in hospital in a 7 bed ward. All the beds had a curtain for privacy. I was hovering up at the ceiling. I was looking down at all the patients in their beds and then looked at myself. I questioned myself, "if am I up here, how can I see when my eyes are back down there in my head and how can I think while my brain is down there in my head..." I thought it was very intriguing. My Mother, Aunt and (now ex) husband were sitting along side my bed. I was thinking to myself that I could just take off if I wanted to, but then I saw and heard my Mother crying and saying "Angie please don't die, please don't die" and then I said to myself, I am not going to die; I just had a baby, at which point I went back into my body. NDE due to spousal abuse and blood loss shortly after delivering baby.

Karen B NDE English expanded version 10/11/2007 She states that her experience is hard to describe, there really are not words for it. But, she found herself floating in black space, floating up towards a bright light in the distance. There were "beings" there to help her so she wouldn't feel alone. She didn't actually see bodies and she didn't recognize any of them. She had the sense of being in a wonderful place. There were no words communicated to the "beings", it was more like they were communicating by thought such as "don't be afraid, we're here with you". As she got closer to the light, it got brighter and brighter. She had the sense that the light was God. Up to that time, she had no religious background when growing up. But, she felt she was going to God and that there was nothing to be afraid of. Then, she suddenly felt herself being pulled back. She felt she had something to do in this life on earth and that her life wasn't over yet. First Person Interview as told to Elaine Smith (NDERF Volunteer).

Jorge R NDE English expanded version From Chile 10/6/2007 Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva and Marien. I instantly found myself on a pathway like in a gigantic garden, and there was light, much light, all around me. I felt a peace and tranquility that I've never felt, since. I was walking on the path; one could see much vegetation, plants, flowers, trees, etc., etc., etc. Towards the end of the walkway, one saw an enormous central light and it was as if a superior being interrogated me and asked me what I was doing there. Like the child that I was, I started to explain what I've just said: that I was at school, that it was a Saturday during the day and that I was at recess, that my playmate.... and etc., etc., etc., and at that moment I awoke and I was stretched out on the ground on my back and all my playmates of the same grade were surrounding me. Child NDE.

Christine R NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 Within seconds of observing my lifeless body, I found myself traveling through a tunnel of sorts at lightening speed, sort of like the Star Wars movie "time warp." It was as though all energy of the universe was passing by me, and soon there were specks of bright white light converging into a glaring white light. It felt like a rocket-propelled orgasm. This feeling was like no other I had experienced and like no other I have experienced since then- it was as if providence was holding me. Then, I heard the voice of God in my head, and all at once he asked me, have loved enough? have you learned enough? and have you experienced enough? I suddenly realized that I had not done the things he had asked of me, and I screamed "No" I need to do more time. And just like that, boom! I was back in my body moaning from the pain. NDE due to auto accident.

Rob D NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 Dead friends told me what had happened. All communication was telepathic. I asked where my dead stepson was. I was told he had gone back. I asked why they had not? I was told that time and space do not exist here. 1 second, 1 year, 1000 years, all the same. I was told we all go back many times, until we have learned what is needed to ascend to a higher state of being. We are all a part of a greater being, he experiences what we experience. All things, the grass air, trees, everything has a living force and is of as much importance to the creator as are we. The planet we live on is alive, and should be as revered as human life. They told me they were unsure if my body could be revived. If it was, I should be willing to speak with those who would listen about what I had been told. I was told that I would experience things that would give me opportunity to review how I had lived. I was told that all is forgiven, all spirit is eternal, all can be redeemed. NDE due to heart attack.

Turk NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 My childhood best friend and I were huffing gasoline, We were doing this for about 15 minutes. I just inhaled a bunch and passed the can to my friend. He said I fell over and was twitching on the ground. He said he thought I was messing around till the twitching stopped then I started to turn blue he started to smack me in the face and I came to. I had the worst headache. While I was out I seen my funeral I saw myself in a casket. and I seen my friends and family crying and then the vision faded out. And that was when I woke up on the ground. I feel this was a NDE if it wasn't it was a real eye-opener after that I never huffed gasoline again. NDE due to inhalation of gas fumes at age 15. Interesting future view of his own funeral.

James H NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 Once in the ambulance and the EMT began to work on me, I just stopped breathing. I felt no desire nor need to breath. I could see and hear the EMT telling me to breath but I could nor did I want to answer. I then just closed my eyes for a second and I was gone. I had never felt so alive and complete. There was no pain or discomfort. I was totally at peace. My spirit or energy was floating through what looked like a heavy snow fall. Large flakes or bit of light were gentle falling around me. I was floating towards a very warm soft light. I possessed the certain knowledge that once I reached the light. I would be whole or complete, that this was the only place I belonged. Just was I reached the light I encountered a force or a energy that repelled my away. At that instance I opened my eyes and felt the EMT forces a plastic tube down my throat and forcing me to breath. I did not come back willingly or by choice. NDE due to accident and environmental exposure.

David R NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 Had been in hospital a couple of weeks with pneumonia. Late one evening, my parents were visiting. A doctor was present. I felt tired and drifted off. I heard the doctor say "he's gone". Then I was aware that I was floating above the bed at ceiling level. My first response was to wonder why my mother was crying because I felt very serene and peaceful. It did not occur to me that my position above the bed was unusual. I observed the doctor inject something into my left arm and I awoke the next morning. The experience was a short one and I saw no lights or other entities but it was not a dream. NDE due to pneumonia at age 12. Shared 55 years later.

Tim S Probable NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I was in a fatal head on collision. Then 3 weeks later the hospital over dosed me. I went code blue. Almost certainly NDE due to accident and “overdose” in hospital, but very few details, and cannot be sure.

Juanita M NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I could not determine what was happening to me. I was "in a dark place" and then became aware that I was in a tunnel lined with multi-fine concentric circles (gray colored) and that my body was moving rapidly down the tunnel feet first (I was aware of my feet (I was barefoot) but they were not solid - more of a filmy nature. My eyes focused on the beautiful golden light at the end of the tunnel where I was headed! Before I came to the light (I never entered the light!) what I presumed to be an "angel" appeared at my side. By this time the terrible noise in my ears had stopped! "He" had no wings but had shoulder length light brown hair and a plain white gown. I had never seen this being before in my life. I recall now seeing him at my side from waist up only. I do not recall if he "glowed". As I picture him in my mind now, he didn't. We communicated by telepathy only - not in words. I did not ask the angel who he was - I just surrendered to the "experience" whatever would happen next. NDE after childbirth due to blood loss.

Melinda R NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I saw the hospital room that I was in (ER department). I did not want to come back, but eventually understood that I had to. not sure how I knew that, but later after I recuperated I remember knowing that I would never be afraid of dying. I also, at 18, was very sure I had to do something for other people with my life. I tried to convince my parents that I HAD to join the peace corps, something I would have never wanted to do before this happened. It totally changed my life. My mother died 2 years ago. I was with her when the doctor told her she had a month to live, and was able to tell her that I was SURE she would be okay. NDE due to head on auto collision and coma for one week.

Jill F Probable NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 A spirit guide told me to breath deeply. A sweet perfume scent filled the air, which made it easier to relax and let go. We went through a powder blue - white light. I was shown a glimpse of my future. I continued on to a library of sorts. (I've since been to this library three times). There were small groups of people or spirits (?) in individual rooms called "pods". In these rooms the spirits or people, were planning their next life or reincarnation. I continued on with a (person, spirit, being ?) who was dressed in a monk gown. We went into the library where he proceeded to show me where the volumes of books were located that contained information on my various lives. He started to open a huge book called "The Book of Knowledge", when a higher up in the chain of beings came forth. He informed the individual with whom I was with, that I knew too much. And that he was to stop, and not open this book. The monk said that he wanted to show me where I came from, as well as three other members of my family. The picture was of a galaxy. And, he did point out were we came from. All different locations in fact. The elder monk told him to stop at once. Probable NDE with reincarnation.

Terry V NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I told the man who had appeared that I was feeling gravely ill and I asked him what I could do about that. He told me I could come over and join them. I told him that I had too much to do. I had a husband and child coming and that they needed me. I had things to do for them. I understood and told me that in that case I should look over there. He told me that that was the source of all knowledge and from there I could receive a healing if a truly asked. I saw a brilliant, pulsating, radiating, golden "dawn". I asked it for help. I had to totally concentrate. When I did the radiations lengthened towards me and when I reduced my concentration they retreated. I understood and concentrated really hard. The gold radiations reached towards me and started to "play" on my feet and then steadily moved up my body and as they did a feeling of wellness and well-being traveled through my body immediately behind the radiations. I was completely restored. I called out to the radiations with grateful thanks. NDE due to unknown illness. Remarkable encounter with healing light.

Mark D NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I drew the baddest bucking bull on earth at the time in the bull riding event winter rodeo indoors he roared out of the chute with a really high jump when he hit the ground the force threw me forward as he was coming up for jump 2 knocking me with a blow to my chest he then began to spin on the 3rd spin I was beginning to fly towards his outside and hit the chute gate with my head . my dad said I went straight down the gate like jumping out of a moving truck into a brick wall . next thing I know I'm up on the ceiling at least 40 or 50 feet looking down I watched my equipment being taken off of me and worried that it was all going different directions I watched the ambulance back into the arena and watched them put me in the ambulance . as I was up there looking down there was tremendous light behind me I knew I was up there with the lights but this I knew was brighter than lights and something told me not to look back into the light so I didn't . NDE at age 16 due to rodeo accident.

Eileen G Probable NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I was taken to Emergency Room with asthma attack I was having very bad pain in my chest. I told the doctor, that I felt like I was imploding they got me on table. My heart rate was 180 and my o2 sat was 80. I remember lying on the table I could hear the people around me. I could hear my husband say, "oh please don't die." I closed my eyes and I immediately felt warm and peaceful. I saw a white object in front of me. They were like vials they started to unfold and wrap around me I felt safe. then I thought of my grandson Michael and they closed up and I has back on the table all the life support equipment was next to me. I'm convinced that it was my love for mike the bought me back I have told this story to several doctors and they all agree that it was an NDE. Probable NDE from asthma attack.

Roy G NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I was riding my bike down a big hill and lost control and hi my head on the curb. and I remember looking at my self from above the trees and there was a warm golden light that kept me safe and told me not to panic. Then I remember looking at my self very closely and I was back in my body and I could not remember who I was. A friend found me and took me to my house and my mom took me to the Emergency Room. NDE due to bicycle accident at age 10.

Douglas T NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I tried to speak to them but all they would say to me is "We're not waiting for you go home". I spoke to most of these people and everyone said the same thing "We're not waiting for you go home". Then the last thing I remember from that side was my grandfather's voice, I did not see him I just heard his voice say "Your the luckiest boy I know". Then three days later I awoke in the hospital with my Mother and Sister standing over my bed. My Mother says that my first question was about the play I was working on at the time and my second question was about my Grandfather. The Doctors told her not to tell me right away that he had died two days earlier so as not to put me in shock. NDE due to heart attack. Heard grandfather’s voice, though he did not know his grandfather had died around the time of his heart attack.

Dan W NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 From Australia Also, above me was a strange window. It was made of brittle frosted glass I couldn't see what was on the other side, but it was bright and white) and I knew that all I had to do was agree, and I would be lifted up and would smash through the glass to the other side. I knew that in doing so I could not come back. But very strongly and very clearly I knew that it was my choice. I could stay or I could go. There was no pressure, no lobbying: it was simply what I wanted to do. The part of me that was calmly observing things saw my mother in the corner of the room (she had driven me to the doctor due to an infection in my leg) and I knew that leaving her would break her for good. It was then, very calmly, that I decided to stay. NDE due to anaphylactic reaction to medication.

Flora S NDE English expanded version 10/6/2007 I was standing by a gate with other spirits and looking at my hands and arms realizing I too was in spirit form. We did not speak to one another we just waited and it was so bright and blinding but it did not hurt my eyes I knew if I went through the gate everything would be final and there would be no turning back. I then heard a voice of a female in my head telling I must return that it was not my time. I then woke up on life support… NDE in ICU after suicide attempt.

Kevin M NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I remember nurses continually asking if I was still with them, and I thought "how absurd, of course I am still here." I then found myself walking through a grassy field, the sun warm on my face, the trees off in the distance turning fall colors. The grass was about thigh high, but not difficult to walk through. I felt absolute happiness and peacefulness. I got the feeling that someone was just over the rise waiting for me. I then found myself back in that ugly green exam room with the doctors holding my legs up over my head and saying, " he's back. We've got him" I was so disappointed, almost angry to be back. I was only gone a few seconds. NDE due to blood loss.

James T NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 The suffering ceased. I then found myself walking through what look like a long tunnel and at the end of this tunnel was a large white, bright sun glowing. The funny thing about this light is that it did not hurt my eyes or cause any sensitivity to my eyes. I did not feel a sense of fear or extreme happiness...there was no emotion. As I walk toward the light, I remember calling for my mother..." Mom"...I then stopped and a voice behind me said "Walk toward the light". I did not recognize the voice, but it was calm. I started to walk again and just as I thought in my mind to turn around to see who this voice was, the voice said "Don't turn around...walk toward the light. Everything will be alright". I cont to walk toward the light and I ask the voice where was my mother. The voice said "Everything will be alright...Walk to the light. I then woke up with the doctors performing chest compressions on me. NDE due to asthma at age 5.

Vallia Y NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 From Canada I heard the Dr. screaming I had no blood pressure- I still can't move, blink an eye but I was aware of everything-saw everything even though my eyes were closed. I left the hospital AND WAS FLOATING IN THIS BLACK VOID :NO LIGHTS, SOUND OR PEOPLE. I WASN'T SCARED. I had an inner peace I've never felt before or since I came back , NO PAIN & I had pain when I came out of the coma. I had a bowel movement, when I don't know, I never felt a thing it took about 2 hours to come around out of the coma. When I was in this place I always thought I would be a fighter & do anything to live, but I didn't worry about my family, I saw their lives & just knew they're were going to be up's & downs but that was ok, it was their life & they were meant to go thru it-their destiny ..I never wanted to leave this place, afterwards I look back & think why no lights (this is the scariest, cause I've never heard of a "NDE" which is in a void & black.). NDE due to anaphylactic shock. This was a “void” type of NDE.

Kathy N NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 The alarm on the blood pressure machine was the last thing I heard before it felt like I shot out of myself. In the next instant, my back was to the ceiling and I was looking down at all the activity. I knew the body on the table was mine, but it didn't matter to me. All I felt was an intense curiosity about what I was seeing. There was a bright silvery white light to my left, but I didn't want to look at it yet. In stead I wanted to look the doctor in the eye. With a thought I was there face to face with him, but he couldn't see me. His concern was to get the baby out, while another group worked on me. With a mere thought I went around to each person in the room and watched them. I was looking at my nurse (she looked so sad) when suddenly I was slammed back into myself with tremendous force. All the pain gripped me, and I could feel the pressure from the incision on my lower abdomen. I heard someone say "We have her back". NDE during childbirth due to shock.

Ernestine N Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I was lifted and surrounded by marshmallow-soft LOVE . No words can describe the perfect happiness and security of that palpable LOVE. The whole atmosphere actually consisted of LOVE. Then I looked down and saw several people whom I did not recognize. They looked up at me and said, "This is the real world. We're the real people. Stay here." But I knew I had to go back. Probable NDE from car accident. Shared at age 85.

Deborah S NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I then went through the tunnel of black void and into the light. As I emerged into the light I felt sunshine warmth and smelled the earth, the grasses and flowers. I came through the tunnel and standing at the edge I saw the large green meadow and the tall grasses and a body of water. On the other side stood a male being in a white gown and a black and white long haired dog. I do not know how I got across the water but I went to them and they lead me to a very, very tall golden knobbed door. As I went to put my hand on the door a being said something to me and in my mind I started to think of my three small children. The next thing I felt was a swish and I was in total darkness. NDE due to post surgical bleeding.

Jonathan R NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I remember standing about 10 feet up and 10 feet to the side of my body on the table. A person was standing next to me, but I didn't look at him/her. I had no fear, or questions to ask, I just observed. Around the table were at least a dozen nurses and doctors. But what was so emotional was the presence of white people that I can only describe as angels. Each angel was guiding the hands of the staff they were standing next to. I heard no noise, no voices, no music. It was peacefully quiet. I don't remember details to specific, such as what tools were used, or the exact position of my body, but only because I was focused so much on the angels guiding the staff in everything they did, from walking, to the use of the tools within my chest cavity. Even after the operation, I still had an unusual peace and no fear. The doctor said it was the best operation he had ever gone through, there were no problems at all, and he was impressed at my rate of recovery. NDE due to perforated esophagus and complications. Remarkably, saw angels assisting doctors during operation. Was later told he had a 1% chance of surviving the operation.

RL S NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I was in the Mexican jungle at festival called Cumbre Tajin in which many schools of healing medicine are practiced both ancient and modern. My Uncle, who is a doctor in the US was beside me at the time of the fall and witnessed and documented the event along with several other doctors and non-traditional healers. CPR was maintained for approx 20 mins, during which periodic in-field coma and nerve tests were performed. I was pronounced dead… During this time I saw mental images of landscapes and things I had recently observed in my travels there, I then only perceived what you have referred here to as 'void', this felt to me about 2 minutes but was around 25 mins of total unconsciousness as I was told. I began to come to as the people performed several procedures on me; they were using many techniques unfamiliar to Western medicine. NDE due to fall, and was pronounced dead in Mexican jungle at a ceremony.

Jerald H NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 Then the lights went out. It was an incredible calm and peace that I found myself in suddenly. I was awash in a light and feeling the presence of this being. The feeling of love, as if I was but a cup, and an ocean of love was pouring into my soul that I could not contain, yet desiring more. I remember being aware of my being in this place and a sense of expectation, waiting for the next step to take that journey. I was all consumed with the knowledge of this presence and the experience of it. Then the lights and sound came. NDE due to cardiac arrest. Contributor is a minister with a Ph.D.

Weston G NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 Not knowing how to swim, I went under water and submerged three times. I stayed under for approximately 12 minutes. While under I, at first, saw many dazzling colors. I also remember seeing angels and darkness. The darkness was very scary and it seemed as though it lasted forever. Then I was in a dark tunnel, and I began to see a dim light at the end of the tunnel. As I traveled closer to the light it became brighter end brighter. Finally the light became the most brilliant white one could ever imagine. The white then began to take the form of Jesus. I don't remember if words were exchanged, but I did get the urge to stay with him. I wanted to stay. But he sent me back , and the next thing I knew my head was bouncing off of a tree limb which was part of a downed yet stable tree in the water. NDE due to near drowning at age 9.

Michael H NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 All at once, I heard one of the nurses yell out... "straight line, straight line, my God... we've got a straight line!" At that exact moment, it was as if my consciousness was sucked into a vacuum. And everything became crystal clear. My knowledge of 'someone' being operated on, became a knowledge of knowing it was me that was being operated on... that it was my heart that had just stopped beating. And the thing of it was... I was aware of it all. I had full knowledge of the fact that my body had just stopped living. I could hear lots of commotion in the operating room (even though I was completely sedated and with no heartbeat). The nurses that were assisting were quite frantic. And all the while... during this commotion, it was as if I had been immersed into some kind of essence or form of energy that I can only describe as the purest form of 'love' that there is. It was an incredibly wonderful feeling. It was as if my soul had been blended with the soul of what we perceive to be God. There was no distinguishing where I began or where I ended. NDE due to surgical complication at age 16. Interesting awareness of his heart stopping and beginning of NDE at that exact moment.

Elaine C NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I knew I was following a intense bright light, there was darkness all around me, the light didn't hurt my eyes, it was warm and loving, I wanted to be where it was. I wanted to go, even though I didn't understand what was happening, that I was leaving my family and the family dog who I loved so much. when I "arrived" my memory is fuzzy about it but I remember people around me, no one I knew had died yet. these people were in white robes. they were so alive, more alive then anyone I had known before, they shown with intense light but my eyes were not like earth eyes and I could see different there, like my eyes were adjusted for the light. like when you go out from a dark house to a bright day and your eyes adjust to the brightness. These people were complete love. they told me things. some I didn't remember until later in my life. NDE due to criminal attack at age 5. CAUTION! GRAPHIC AND NOT FOR CHILDREN!

Sherri A NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 From Canada I fell backwards and slammed my head against the frozen concrete walkway. This is what I experienced. I became conscious that I was in complete darkness and alone. I had zero sense of body but a complete sense of self. I was me (sense of humor, intelligence etc) I was suspended, just there, I perceived a spot of color wayyyyy off in the distance like a small pinprick of color on a jet black blotter. My thought was "oh what is that" the moment I thought it, I moved forward, almost like my curiosity propelled me. I knew I had no body so it was like floating forward, I remember thinking "wow this is cool" and I wanted to see what the color was. The more curious I got the fast I propelled forward, like flying, it felt incredibly freeing. I really liked it and the more I wanted to go faster, the faster I went. As I got closer to the color, I heard faint music and smelt an incredibly intoxicating scent. NDE due to head injury.

Patricia S NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I seemed to see myself watching from outside my body, and I just seemed to be slowly and gently going deeper. Next, I do not have a vivid recollection of time, but, it seemed that my whole little life circled before me like an old time movie. In such detail, that even to this day I can remember the swirl of my life. The next thing was that the wonderful unexplainable colors surrounding me was about the most beautiful thing or place I had ever seen. Then this being was with me, I don't think I knew if it was Jesus, God, an Angel or whom was with me, but, I do remember the overwhelming love and sense of well being. I think the old joke of the life review, where I was so young that I had to ask for a "rerun" however, even being 6 or 7 I was shown each and every word I had uttered at anyone, each thing I had done to hurt any person by word or deed was and still is embedded in my mind. I also remember this wonderful being not being angry with me, but, I REMEMBER that I felt that I had somehow grieved Him. NDE due to near drowning at age 7-8, shared 59-60 years later.

Patrick L Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I became aware of figures in a light with me (but not comparable to "light" as we would know it--sun or otherwise) who I've later identified as my future daughter and son in their unborn states as souls, for lack of a better word; there was a sense of communication but not words within the communication. Another figure of light (which I later felt was "Jesus") communicated the following distillation that I was able to formulate fairly soon after my existence in this world resumed. The gist of it was that I could "leave my present level of experience if I wanted to but that there was still things left undone that I had come to the earth to do". I next experienced a kind of "asking" from my future children to return and not let death take me. In brief, the experience was beatific, extraordinarily peaceful, and beyond pain and pleasure of any describable kind. Probable NDE during surgery. Interesting encounter with his future children.

Richard T NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 He simply asks, "Recall all sorrow." And He means everything you know of that you did that hurt others and everything you didn't realize hurt others; ALL OF IT. And at that command, your heart within your spirit begins to slowly swell like a water balloon. As it swells the pain in your heart increases until it becomes overwhelming. I was lucky. When He had seen enough and knew where allowing it to increase would go, He commanded me to "Let it go" and "Be at Peace." And slowly the swelling pain stopped and reversed and relaxed again to neutral. He then surrounded and washed my soul with His "Love Light Glowing at a Gentler Pace" which took on a more Golden hue. He had seen quite enough and so had I. His next pure thought? "Recall all Joy." The same swelling in my heart occurred which accounted for all the love, joy and happiness I had experienced during the 8 years of life I had lived. NDE due to extremely rare blood condition at age 8.

Stephen C NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 There "I" was, in this "space" of light, with these three "beings" appearing in front of me. We had a "conversation"..and later (*15 years)..when all of this came "clear".. I was given a choice..AS IS ALWAYS DONE...to stay "gone" or to go back. "They" told me that they wanted my "form"...( the physical form holds the cellular memories of all of ones experiences) and "they" wanted to send me back with a "new" spirit. A "healing" and "teaching" one. But that "they" wanted it in a "form" that had the ability to survive until the "time" was "right". I must have agreed. NDE due to criminal attack.

Steve H NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I had 15 arrests over 5-6 hours, but was aware during most of the time… I looked down and saw myself, heard the doctors, and could not see my toes… The Dr. had me record it on a tape as soon as possible. I saw the Dr. at a party this year and he said he still had the tape and uses it in some talks. NDE due to multiple cardiac arrests.

Jan M NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 During the time I was dead I remember hearing the grandchildren asking what was wrong and the oldest saying Grandpa we must talk to Jesus. I then went to a place of calm with a sky a blue I have never seen and there were trees of bright gold and green that you could see through the leaves and all was so bright. I also remember I was floating over my body and could see me in my husband’s arms with the grandchildren standing by. NDE from a clot which may be a pulmonary embolus

Melvin H NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I was hit by 7200 volts going thru my middle finger on my right hand and exiting thru both feet into the concrete, burning my foot prints into the concrete. I was slammed into the side of the bldg so hard that the paint of the bldg was impacted into my work jacket. My tool buddy removed my body from out the work area and started giving me CPR, he was raising up and asked the rest of our crew for help, and my work leader told him what's the use he's dead. All of this was going on and I was looking down on him and my body and then I started out on a journey, I went over the top of building #100 which is referred to as the Taj Mahal, and I was able to describe the very elaborate roof tile on the roof. At this time I went back thru my life seeing people I loved very dearly but were already dead. NDE due to electrocution.

Frankie NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 Upon the arrival of the paramedics, I felt I was completely lucid and asked them to please take me to the hospital. I was advised by the paramedics that they would have to strap me to a back board. Immediately, I responded with I didn't want too, so three paramedics grabbed me lay me down on the board. As soon as my head hit the ground I felt a complete relief come over me. At that very moment I knew I was free. I was awake, or so it seemed and everything about me was white and warm. The pain that I had no longer existed and I felt completely at peace. After what seemed like an eternity the paramedics brought me back and I begged them to let me go. Please, I begged, let me go. NDE due to motor vehicle accident.

Arda F Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I went through the wall and enter the hallway where noticed my brother-in-law (My sister's husband) walking back and forth on the hallway talking to someone on his cell phone. I then floated into a tunnel with all pastel color lights (light pink, peach, yellow) I knew it was a tunnel as when you looked around, it was round (same as when your drive through a tunnel) and going through the source of the light at the end of the tunnel. There were no one on the tunnel, it was quite and peaceful but was very very cold and I started shaking. All I could remember was "GOD" so started talking to him telling him "God, I am so cold, I am so cold, please help". Then a religious symbol in Islam (Aboulfazr's hand) showed up in the tunnel, it was as big as Empire State building, huge but WARM. NDE with Islamic imagery. Catholic but born in Iran.

Joyce D NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 When I tried to get away, he grabbed me by the throat, he began to squeeze, suddenly I was not in my body but looking down on me and him. I could see and hear him yelling at me. Everything slowed down, I was completely at peace, I knew he could kill me, I knew it was my body down there he was strangling. I felt that I was completely in touch with everything and that I was going to have to made a big decision about whether to live or die. I was not afraid to die, especially since everything was so peaceful and clear. But something was telling me that I had overcome too many obstacles in my life not to live. My time wasn't ready. I watched him with his hands on my neck and I could see fear in his eyes. I think I was loosing consciousness and he let go and I just kind of floated to the floor. NDE due to being choked by boyfriend.

Raymond L NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I was in jail, facing an extended stay. I was in a very low place emotionally, so I decided to take my life. When I did so, I was rushed to the hospital with no pulse or breathing. What I experienced, was a vast emptiness of light and soothing comfort. It was white, yet also dark? A figure approached me, dressed in what appeared to be a robe of some sort. I could see the figure, however could not see a face. The figure indicated to my lifeless body with a pointing finger, and when I turned to look.....I was rushed back to my lifeless body laying on the floor. For the next 4 days....I could hear and feel the "Spirit" speaking to me...I was shown the future in my dreams, and told of the path that I must take. NDE from attempted Suicide.

Kenneth L NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 Well, I wasn't ready to die, so I 'resisted' with all of my inner strength/force of will/whatever you want to call it. I immediately shot up 'through' the ground. I could see rocks and dirt going by my face, but I was traveling 'through' it as if I were non-corporeal. It was well light, even though I could not see any source of light. I shot up though the ground, and into a basement of a building, with lots of pipes and ventilation equipment in it. Straight though this, and two more floors of a hospital, seeing inside the floors as I passed though them, as well as people walking in them. I shot straight up and into the chair in which my body was sitting, and into my body, which I saw was slumped over. I saw my room-mate backed into the corner of his bed, frightened out of his wits. I saw my nurses and the orthopedic tech, a large black man who was the only person who could maneuver me in and out of bed, running up the hall towards my room. NDE due to complication of medical treatment at age 17. Quite atypical initial part of experience.

Phillip M NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 While riding my bicycle in the evening I was stricken from behind, to this day I do not know by what. I flew a few yards and fell face first on the pavement. Unconscious I saw myself from above on the other side of the road. Thrown out on the pavement for a time several cars passed by did not stop. Finally an older couple did stop. I saw them stand over me and then the older man kneeled down to look for my wallet. NDE due to being struck while riding bicycle.

Karie N NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I became unconscious. Suddenly I was up high in the sky, looking down and I could see my car and the pick up truck both in the ditch. There were two angels there with me. There was a beautiful bright light surrounding us. The angels were beautiful and I felt a sense of inner peace, that no matter what I do in life, there are beings up above who love us and watch us over us and are waiting for us to come Home. I wanted to go Home then. The angels told me that I still had a purpose to fulfill, lots of people to influence, that I had someone whom I was supposed to marry and have a meaningful life. They said it would be hard, that there were lots of trials, but that I would get through all of them with success. They said the world needed me right now. NDE due to auto accident.

Kelly A NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 In the doctor's office, I leaned over the end of the table to receive the shot in my hip. The nurse asked if I was ok afterwards, I said I was fine. I was not, that's the last thing I remember. During the time I passed out, I had a dream that I was in another life. I was walking across the street in a downtown city, like New York, or Chicago, as there were cabs, busy streets and high buildings. At the same time, it was like I was watching myself in a movie, and seeing things with my own eyes as well. I looked like another girl, I had a life, a family. I lived a few blocks away. I was going home. I was much older and living in an apartment. NDE due to reaction to penicillin shot at age 14. Quite atypical experience.

Karen D NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 I felt assured at that time that, and the way that I have said it to any one I tell, it was like we are (visualize a large spot, then superimposed over that spot the same spot) here, but also here! That God IS....... I to this day am ready to go back!!! Now for the real interesting Part! I saw my husband when I came back, the first words I said to him was I had to come back for you. I have to tell you part of his life for you to truly understand this. My husband lost his son to a drunk driver who hit him on a bike and has been terrified of death. Last year my husband was diagnosed with stage IV cancer, he is terminal and has months to live. I believe with all that I am that I had the NDE due to bilateral obliterating organizing pneumonia (this is so rare I have never heard of it before).

Sally J NDE. English expanded version 9/29/07 August 28th, 2005. 10:30am. Having excruciating pain across shoulders and neck. Called my husband and said that I needed him with me. Called for nurses and they took electro cardiogram on two different machines and it did not show that I was having a heart attack. They soon new because I went into cardiac arrest. I was gone for one min. and 35 seconds. At the time I saw myself lying on the bed and I was floating above in a grey square area. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Norma C NDE. English expanded version 1999 I know that I was answering bunches and bunches of questions and testing God's presence, because I just couldn't believe the experience, BUT he showed me without a doubt the wonder of the presence. I say presence, because I have discovered that God is simply a body that we as humans have to put 'Him' into. He is far too great and wonderful to be humanistic. God is a presence, an existence so wonderful, so beautiful. I am no longer scared of death; I was, but not now. Suicide NDE

Rafa NDE. English expanded version From Spain 9/26/07 Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva And that's the part that is difficult to explain. Everyone sees lights and tunnels. Not me. My experience was, in a certain way, the inverse of this. From the sensation of disgust, I instinctively deduced (no means of rationalization whatsoever) that I had come back from a dark and silent world--but a happy one. Something like being in your mother's womb. I realize it's not a common experience, but it's mine. That day I totally lost the fear of death. There were no judges, nor reprimands. nor a review of your errors. I simply passed onto something similar to a purely spiritual hibernation. NDE from a hypoglycemic coma.

Heidi B NDE. English expanded version 9/22/07 During surgery, apparently, I remember leaving my body, and flying out of the room, down the halls and around corners. I then flew through the glass double doors in the entryway, and around the outside of the brick hospital building, gaining altitude as I flew. As I got up near the clouds, the street lights from below made them glow a pinkish color. I saw what looked to be thousands of angels, all in flowing robes or gowns, flying in the same direction. I struggled to "catch up" with an angel to my right. Just as I had just about come up even with her, she smiled this gentle smile, and shook her head in a negative manner. I immediately dropped, waking up in my body. My body felt as though it was jolted with shock. My doctor was standing near the foot of the bed, looking very pale and shaken. He told me that they had nearly lost me, indicating seven needle marks on my chest where they had injected me with adrenalin to jump start my heart and lungs. NDE due to surgical complication.

Phillip G NDE. English expanded version 9/22/07 The next thing I hear is, "we're losing him", from one of the nurses and then the doctors and nurses voices started fading off in the distance and physically I felt no pain or discomfort as I felt myself floating up towards the brightest pure white light that I've ever seen--almost indescribable how bright it was, but it was by no means blinding. If I was to put a time frame on how long this lasted, I'd say several minutes. It was several minutes of complete peace. There was nothing but the light and the next thing I remember is waking up 2 days later in ICU. The doctors told me they lost me (all vitals) a couple times. NDE due to being shot with 45 caliber in chest.

Maria S NDE. English expanded version 9/22/07 I did not know what was going on with me since I fainted. I just remember me being in this bluish/whitish bright light. I was walking and saw my deceased grandmother and aunt. They were standing in front of me as I was walking towards them, there was no tunnel I was in the light, there was no end behind them only light. My grandmother and aunt were both wearing gowns they looked like the color of light I did not see their feet. They gently smiled at me. As I was walking towards them I felt in peace and I was happy to see them no worries nothing. Then two names came to my mind Julian and Paola they are my kids. As I thought about them something dark pulled me away from my aunt and grandmother. NDE due to amniotic fluid embolism during delivery.

Joan D NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 The paramedic on the side of me said, "What?!" He then said, "I'm not getting a pulse. Then everything went black. It seemed like I was standing in total darkness. There was something, or someone standing on the side of me a few feet away. I felt nothing bad, I was actually quite happy. It felt like I had no problems anymore, like the weight of the world was lifted off of me. I turned to look on the side of me. I could not see anything, but I knew someone was there. I looked up at what I thought was the sky. I could see all these stars and they were so beautiful. I continued looking at them and reaching out towards them and saying how beautiful they were. The stars were so bright, but I could look at them without being blinded. Then some of the stars started coming towards me. I turned to the presence on the side of me and said how beautiful they were and that I wished they would hurry up and get closer. When I turned back to look at the stars, they were in the forms of crosses. I thought they were the most beautiful things I had ever seen and I was so happy. I really felt as though they were angels coming for me. NDE due to allergic reaction.

Jim B Probable NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 First Stanza of Out of Body Poem A second chance is there to see For those who've had an OBE. A flight of fancy may be all, But "Tunnel Vision" may befall A favored few who see the light And find the Promised Land in sight; And at the tunnel's end we find A glorious goal that bends the mind. Probable NDE due to auto accident. Shared 47 years after experience.

Shari R NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 I was walking with three others along a river bank. I could hear the rushing water and see the glimmer of light upon the stones as the water trickled over and around them. Brilliant light shined through the leaves of the trees, creating shadows and warm spots on my face as I continued along the bank with the others. We were laughing heartedly, I was using a walking stick. Some leaves of a branch from a tree brushed my face and I gently moved it aside. I remember a smile upon my face, the strength I felt, pure joy, completely weightlessness and free from pain. I had this humorous thought " Ha! I wonder what the paramedics think of the grin on my face as I'm laying on the floor unconscious! " The thought made me chuckle. I turned to my companions ( who were more like beings of light and shadow. Not of this mortal world ) and smiled. NDE due to illness.

Nancy S NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 There was a light that defies description. It was so beautiful and seemed to be in complete harmony with sound and other sensory input that also defy description. It was not of this world. I felt content and loved, but this feeling was not separate from the light or sound or floating. Everything was all one experience. That's why I have a hard time describing what was going on. Nothing was separate from anything else. Then I heard encouraging voices behind my head saying so gently and lovingly "come on; it's OK." I thought the voices belonged to my dead grandparents, but at the same time they seemed other-worldly. Then, without warning, I was slammed into my body on the emergency room table. NDE due to auto accident.

Mitch R NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 I was found in the parking lot unresponsive with no blood pressure a faint pulse and not breathing. What I vividly do remember was not feeling my body at all, there was no sense of pain, discomfort or sickness that I had been feeling at the time let I seemed to have left this world. I remember that I had a sense of knowing and awareness that I was in a light blue mist or cloud. And while I was briefly there I had the must wonderful and peaceful feeling of wellbeing and comfort like nothing I had every known before. I was mentally aware, but I did not feel my body at all. I seemed not to even have to breathe. I thought I was in a place between the body and spiritual word of the afterlife, but I did not have any concerns or fear like I had while I was experiencing my medical event. NDE due to anaphylactic reaction to medication.

Roland D NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 The second experience I had was much different... In transport to my requested hospital my ambulance became stuck in traffic, I could hear Donny, (my Paramedic) saying that we must get on the highway and find a different route to a different hospital. I thought to myself, "this is not good" and only wished I could see outside. Immediately afterwards I could see a "birds eye view" of my ambulance moving "in slow motion" towards me, the clarity of that moment was perfect, I remember seeing everything looking down on the highway from the tan brick wall abutments to the puddles in the street. My ambulance raced toward me with headlights and strobes flashing. However, this time there was no sound! Sight was all that I maintained. Oh yes, this was the "best mood" I have ever remembered being in! My mind was very sharp and I was still very much aware of what was happening to me. 3/2/08 Immediately afterwards I could see a "birds eye view" of my ambulance moving "in slow motion" towards me, the clarity of that moment was perfect, I remember seeing everything looking down on the highway from the tan brick wall abutments to the puddles in the street. My ambulance raced toward me with headlights and strobes flashing. However, this time there was no sound! Sight was all that I maintained. Oh yes, this was the "best mood" I have ever remembered being in! My mind was very sharp and I was still very much aware of what was happening to me. Two NDEs due to heart attacks. Currently is a Chaplain. We post all NDEs, but this one is heavy on the proselytizing (preaching) which NDERF tries to discourage.

Patricia C NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 From France Darkness was all over me, but it was shining. How to describe that ? I am unable to do so. And a message was conveyed to me that I would have to come back to perform a task, though nothing was revealed of its nature. I was feeling extremely well, no pain, no fear, only unconditional Love, a Living and welcoming Presence overflowing me ; I felt how linked we all are, living creatures in the universe, that are but a spark of a Power that encompass us and that is also within us. No words were uttered, the message just went into me. The expression "Voice of Silence" seems the most appropriate. Warmth, watchful and understanding Presence, unconditional Love. NDE due to miscarriage and hemorrhage.

Jessica B NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 From Canada I was in a coma for seven days suffering from encephalitis during this time I had my NDE I was still quite young and knew nothing of what was going on in the hospital. other than what I have been told to this day. My NDE started with the Tunnel it was a bright soft white light calm and serene( I still have yet to experience this type of serenity again I think I'm still looking for it) I met my Brother at the end of the tunnel and he greeted me and explained who he was (he had died 5 years before my birth) I remember him wearing jeans and a red sweatshirt. I was thrilled (I had asked for a brother since the age of three) we sat in a place I'm not sure where but we were using white garden furniture we talked for a while I asked questions like does God exist? he said he did… NDE due to encephalitis at age 8.

Marney M NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 That's when I heard this voice. It came from behind me and just over my head. It was gentle, rich, and familiar, yet to this day I don't know who he is. When he "spoke" he communicated not just (telepathic) words but also emotions and knowledge. His words, really, meant nothing, but they were powerful. He said, "Do you see the light?" and without even thinking I instinctively looked up. There before me was a white pure light. It was small, about the size of a dime, yet I could not judge how far away it was. It could have been miles or I could have reached out and touched it (if one could touch light). At this time I was no longer aware of having a body, I just "was". NDE due to suicide attempt by medication overdose at age 17.

Kristie T NDE. English expanded version 9/21/07 From England I saw them shock me with the machine (can't remember what its called). I recall the look on a couple of the doctors faces. all the time I was floating above myself (ceiling level) feeling peaceful, released, calm....GLAD!. They decided to try shocking me again, they worked on for (approx - my guess)10mins, and as the time went by the image of me on that table gradually got smaller & smaller. I wasn't aware of anything / anyone, above me / behind /in front/ to the side of me. I remember them (not sure who) saying my time was running out, they would have to declare me dead if I didn't respond to the next shock. As they said this my Grandfather Dennis, who passed away nearly 4 yrs ago, and who had never ever shouted at me in my life!, shouted into my right ear "NO! GO BACK! ITS NOT YOUR TIME!" - The shock of him shouting at me, made me 'jump' back into my own body. NDE due to suicide attempt.

Sylvia D NDE-Like. English expanded version 9/20/07 I got to a place very dark that was like a border or something and there was other people waiting also in line besides me, I looked to my left and I saw a little boy, he also looked at me, and we waited, so I could hear what I thought was one of my aunts saying to get my father, so I waited and my father came walking from the darkness but I could see him well because of his light. he was surrounded by two groups of people on each side that stay behind, but they look like white ghostly figures of white smoke but I could tell they were people, when I think about that I think they were my aunts and uncles. My father look at me smile and turn around and was going back when I felt I want it to stay with him and I was screaming to wait that I want it to stay with him, and I heard that my father told somebody that It wasn't my time, at that moment I felt pressure, on my chest like a giant rubber band holding me not to cross, I was pull backwards and I was falling and I was regressed into my body , I open my eyes when I was to enter my body for a few seconds I could see my room , and then continue sleeping, when I walk up, I felt so relax, like the best restful night of my life.

Nanci D NDE. English expanded version 9/20/07 While my friends enjoyed my life review, memories of my eternal life filled my mind. They included hundreds of physical lifetimes, in humans and other species, as well as thousands of what we would call years spent living in what I was calling “Light Being society,” and what might also be called “life between lives.” I was astounded that I could possibly have forgotten all of it. “Knowing” informed me that when a Light Being like me enters into a human as its soul, only part of its total Energy does so. The rest of the Being’s Energy stays in the Light and continues to evolve as it observes the soul part’s experiences. The reintegration of my memories as an eternal being with those of my just passed human life completed my transformation back into my natural state as a Being of Light. Wow! Profound! Can't wait to read her book!

Pedro L's Father's NDE. English expanded version 9/16/07 From Spain Original in Spanish, translated to English by Eva. But as he searched for the antidote or remedy my father felt as if "something" left his body (his soul, an energy), something which weighed nothing and he started upwards rapidly, very, very high up--higher, he says, then the clouds. He didn't see the doctor nor did he see anyone down below. He also didn't even think of those below. It was as if he didn't remember them...He doesn't remember a light--or something defined as such, just that everything was very light and that he could move from one side to the other very quickly without tiring and without being thirsty. What he does remember is that he was looking for someone or something, but there was hardly any time, as the doctor injected the antidote he returned to his body. That's the part he remembers least: how he returned to his body. Second hand NDE - from allegic reaction.

Jennifer V NDE. English expanded version 9/16/07 Then the voice said his nose is cut off his face you will need to go back and help him he is bleeding to death I said no let somebody else do it he will be fine without my help I do not want to go back down there No! The voice said I will tell you what to do you take off his shirt after you pick his nose up off the floor board of the car it will be next to your feet and his right foot place his nose on his face pressing down to stop the bleeding its just blood so do not be afraid I am with you as always (I knew I was never alone from as far back as a child as I could remember) So then Jennifer you will begin to walk him up the right side of the road and a car will come tell the man to take you to the nearest hospital keeping the man calm go to the hospital ECM where you were born you know the way and everything will be alright you must do this understand? NDE at age 11 due to car accident. During experience, received explicit information to save another person who was in car accident.

Erin H NDE. English expanded version 9/16/07 It took a little while for me to realize what I was looking at. When all the pictures started to flash before my eyes it wasn't until they were almost done that they were pictures of myself when I was a little girl. Those pictures were so cool, but they flashed before my eyes so fast and at the same time I could see every single one of them. NDE due to asthma attack.

Jewel H NDE. English expanded version 9/16/07 Then I was below the surface again and had the thought that I should see my life review. All of a sudden there was a book of my life before me (in my case a magazine, I was only 17) with scenes of my short life on each page, but the pictures moved like a little movie. The only thing that I can remember seeing is a birthday party when I turned eight years old. What significance this had, I don't know. Afterwards I felt that I hadn't accomplished what I had come to earth for, although I still don't know what that is, and didn't then. I did ask what the purpose of life was and I heard "to help other people." The voice in my head said that if I chose to stay and not go back to my life that I would just have to come back in another life and do it all again. THAT shocked me, because at that time I was unaware of past lives. NDE due to near drowning at age 17.

Deborah F NDE. English expanded version 9/16/07 They then remarked how powerful I was. After all they had to obey when I ordered them to show themselves. I figured this was a lie but I also felt flattered. They said prove it to yourself, give us another command. More lies I figured. They then told me that in this state of consciousness that I had telekinetic powers and that I should try moving the television off the dresser then I would have proof of my experience and power. I was tempted but I thought this was wrong. I couldn't help it, I concentrated on moving a small piece of paper on the dresser and it flew up in the air. I instantly felt as thought I committed a sin and felt ashamed and I could not look to see where the small little paper went. NDE due to unknown illness. Variant NDE including a battle with demonic spirits.

Alice S NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 All of a sudden someone pulled me out of the car. I started to cry and remember saying " I know you would let anything happen to me. I didn't know who she was, but I knew "her". She was me and I was her. I felt such joy being with her again. It sounds crazy but we were going through each other. It was if we were invisible, but I felt such love as I went through her. We looked down at the car which was upside-down in a little gully. I could see my body lying there and my neck was at such an angle that even at 18yrs old, I knew I was dead. (I felt no connection to the body as I knew "I" was not there. I could see my boyfriend laying half out of the car and knew he was all right. I remember saying, "Boy am I glad I didn't feel that". The being, who looked like someone whose name I should know started talking to me. She mentioned my sisters. (I am one of 6 girls) we are all very close. She said here we were together again. NDE due to auto accident. She is a retired nurse, and NDE happened 49 years ago.

Bunnie M NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 I looked to see the time and the clock and bulletin board were nothing but bright light, so I thought if that's me down there then where am I? and why am I no longer having trouble breathing...great...because I am not breathing!!!...o.k. well at least I am thinking, and that light is very pretty, but if this is it, and I am dying, where are you Daddy because I am not facing this alone!!!, better yet, I am not going to die, just because I am having wisdom teeth pull, come on now...great I am being sarcastic with God, not a good thing, ....then I felt a strong jolt and I felt a lot of pain and was having a hard time breathing again, and I remember thinking, Thanks. NDE due to post-operative complication.

Pat P NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 The medics loaded me on a gurney and into the aid car. I was still fighting to stay awake. I remember one of them asking if they could cut off my shirt. I thought "Why do they want to do that?" At that point, I was looking down on myself watching the medic cut open my shirt. I wondered "How am I seeing this?" and then I realized something was really wrong. The next thing I remember was being rolled into the ER. NDE due to heart attack.

Barbara H NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 anyway, my body stayed in the car, but my soul/mind definitely when for the trip of a lifetime. I was laying prone on the softest stairs I had ever lain on. they were very much like clouds but sparkly white and sharp as can be at the same time. it was then I realized I was being discussed by others. and at that point I realized just what I happened to be laying on. and I caught my breath in surprise. at that point, the others realized I was aware of my surroundings but they didn't immediately address me in anyway - just let me sort of lie there. then as things became more clear - I realized who they were - I'm not one to suppose the man in the middle who was so tall was Christ himself. I don't want to presume that I would be one of the people so specially chosen. so I instead try to believe it was my grandfather Ellis. facing them on the right I believe is my grandmother on my daddy's side. she seems very anxious/nervous. while on the left of him stands the person I believe to be my mother and she's whispering rather loudly into his ear. NDE due to auto accident.

Susan NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 my parents and I went to dinner at our local pizza inn. I was sitting to the left of my mom and my dad was sitting across from my mom in a booth. All was fine until I felt a deep pain in my chest. I thought I told my mom that I was going to pass out, but when I came to she said I didn't say a word. My whole body felt numb and tingling like when your foot falls asleep. I was a bit light headed, but we continued dinner and went home. I recall people I didn't know coming toward me, but only their faces, telling me to go back. I don't remember how I came back. my parents did not take me to the doctor, and I didn't relate this story to anyone for a long time, and I still only tell a select few. especially someone that is dying, I can tell them not to be afraid, it does not hurt. NDE at age 11-12 associated with passing out during meal.

John NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 I was in a large "shop class" working with wood. I was not working on a project at the time, but was walking across the shop when a guy named Chip walked up to Jim while Jim was working on a lathe. Jim was sanding a large (12-14inch diameter) salad bowl at about 600 RPM and Chip turned it up to 3500 RPMs. The bowl shattered and pieces hit me in the head and face. I was out cold on the floor. I remember being able to see all the people in the room while I seemed to be above them looking down at the scene. I do not remember seeing any blood though. NDE at age 17 due to head injury.

Nancy M NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 I had a stint placed in my coronary artery to open a severe blockage. The procedure was uneventful. The nurse came in at about 0200 AM to have me stand up for the first time. He told me that if I felt sick or faint to sit back down. I stood by the bed and that was the last thing that I remember. Three people, two men and one woman appeared in the upper left corner of my room. I could not recognize their faces. The men were dressed in suits and the woman had on a coat that came just below her knees. They didn't speak but only were there. It is hard to describe the feeling of coming back to this world. I can only compare it to how a ball must feel if you throw it as hard as you can against a wall. This was the next thing that I was aware of. When I came back, I saw the code team standing around my bed preparing to do what a code team does. The nurse had given me epinephrine and restarted my heart so the team left me alone. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

M. R. NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 Running along side the shoreline I then tripped into the water. I was immediately knocked out. After being in this state of floating face down in the water I noticed a buoy marker at the same water line as I. At this point I was in a tunnel of extremely bright white light with a man standing to my right of an entrance as I faced him. The entrance was round at the top and flat at the bottom. The man figure was older and wearing a large rimmed hat darker in color, white long sleeve shirt, darker in color tie along with pants and shoes. I did not recognize him. I was not afraid of him as well. During this time my sister had pulled my lifeless body from the lake onto the shore and alerted surrounding adults I was in trouble. During the procedures to bring me back to life was when I came out of the water and saw my body lying on the ground from an aerial view surrounded by adults. I could see all the commotion unfold as I watched. NDE at age 3 due to near drowning.

James M NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 Shortly, I realized that I was going to die. With that thought and acceptance, everything changed: all the pain of coughing water went away, and I was floating up to a light that seemed to be pulling me; the I seemed to turn and I could see the beach where we had been swimming - there were people there and one was sitting down and I realized it was me; I was pulled back toward my body but it was like I was but a wisp of smoke drawn to my physical body; as I approached my body, I turned to slide into the body and the pain came back. NDE due to near drowning at age 11.

Ken D W NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 …wonderful...calm/peaceful...I was full...I was floating...it was dark but everything I "saw" was clearly defined (not hard to see) ...the people who I was seeing/feeling/experiencing were strangers but loving...in retrospect it's like the love of a parent to a young child...full/unequivocal...and it was able to flow both ways...I was very happy/content being in that place...I was thinking through (???) like in a semi dream state, but it sorta felt like I was insulated ( a big surrounding cocoon of fullness)...safe...immune from anything I didn't want... NDE due to bicycle accident with head injury.

Terry W NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 I felt like I was floating into this light it was very peaceful calm when I got to the light I heard a voice tell me it was not my time I had to go back but I didn't want to I wanted to stay there but was told that I had to go back. NDE due to heart attack.

Rebecca E NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 I awoke in the light experiencing all the emotions I had caused others to feel in my life here. this is very important, the feelings are very strong. I had almost lost my life once before and I felt the feelings my mother felt equally as other emotions great and small. without realizing it you may be setting yourself up to feel terribly by not being considerate, or impatient or being curt with people you don't even know or expect to see again. this to me is what heaven and hell is and governs how I live my life. I was at perfect peace during and after this found myself in the presence of God now understanding the alpha and omega the beginning and the end. how he is the word and the word was with him. NDE due to severe accident.

Chuck K NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 My throat was closing, heart was racing, excruciating pain circulating throughout my body. Before losing consciousness, with eyes open, I was blinded by a bright light, the pain ceased and a warmth came over me. From that point forward I remember nothing in the human form but only that of spirit. I was taken to a place of torture which to the world of the living is known as hell. I knew this was my destiny. I was conscious of a feeling of solitude and darkness. This was a place of no rest, gnashing of teeth . I thought I knew what it was to lead a good life, what it took to get into heaven. The end was here, for eternity. Out of the darkness came a light and it was God. I felt his overwhelming presence, a safety I’ve never known before, a love so great that He chose to save me from the fiery death. Something I knew I did not deserve. NDE due to anaphylactic reaction. Initial hellish experience before rescue.

Felicity W NDE. English expanded version 9/13/07 From Australia. I don't exactly when I felt like I was moving, but I became aware that I was traveling rapidly through darkness. It wasn't quite a tunnel, but it did seem to have a form and direction, even though it was dark. Gradually I became aware of a light far away in the distance, and realized that's where I was heading. As I got closer, I began to feel as though there were people all around, just outside my "tunnel", but I never saw or spoke to them. They were loving and welcoming, and it's hard to explain the incredible sense of joy, happiness and acceptance that I was feeling. It's not a sensation I've ever felt on earth. I got closer to the light, to the point where the darkness disappeared and I was preparing to join the light. It felt wonderful. Then a loving, caring voice said quite clearly, without words "It's not your time. You must go back." NDE due to complication of pregnancy.

Philippe R NDE. English expanded version 8/19/07 From France. Original in French, translated by Patricia. Then, I somehow « swiveled », but the word isn’t accurate because I didn’t really have a shape. What I can tell is that I couldn’t see the swimming-pool. I was “into a white color” (this is the only expression I have found to describe this stage when I happen to tell this experiment, and to my mind, it’s the most accurate). Everything was white, I was bathing in this white. Time was suspended, I found myself in a state of supreme serenity. I was where I had to be, I was feeling so calm, in a state of total perfection and fullness. This state seemed to last for ages if I can say so because time simply didn’t exist. The white color then quickly dissolved into a red-orange color, I was bathing in a sunset. However it was but for a brief period of time because I suddenly felt back into my body, still deep in the water. Child Drowning NDE.

Imma NDE. English expanded version 8/19/07 From Spain. Original in Spanish, translated by Eva & Marien. I was hospitalized because my child was dead in utero. I was 8 months along. On my way to practice birthing, I felt as if I would faint and I told the doctors that I was leaving. Upon awakening I explained to my family that I had risen to a sort of meadow--very green--and that I'd seen deceased family members. NDE from child-birth.

Donnie H NDE. English expanded version 8/18/07 Me and the other kids was running around and jumping off the truck. I don't know if I was pushed or just fell, but all of a sudden I was above the yard looking down on myself. I could see the other kids still running around and playing, unaware I was hurt, but it was peaceful, warm and quiet. I was laying motionless, I could see I was above the a large tree that was in the yard. If I had to guess how high I was out of my body, prob. 70 to 100 ft. maybe higher. Anyways, in a matter of seconds, I was back in my body. Child NDE

Anthony W Fear-Death. English expanded version 8/18/07 I was traveling down a city street in a compact rent-a-car at about 40 mph when my car blew a tire and the vehicle I was in spun out and ended up on the other side of the road facing the wrong direction. As my vehicle came to rest a semi truck was approaching me, the truck was in another lane of a two lane street and proceeded to slam on the brakes. While sitting there in the rental car I actually saw things and people that occurred in my life flash before me. It seemed like years of events and people I loved the most all appear before my eyes in a matter of 10 to 20 seconds. Right after the flashes I saw the semi pass right in front of me and miss my vehicle by a matter of inches, at that point I realized that had he struck me that I would have probably died. Fear Death Experience with no physical compromise.

Patsy D NDE. English expanded version 8/18/07 I turned around and was immersed in light. I was surrounded by unconditional love, and total acceptance. I knew I was complete at last. Never had I felt such safety and serenity before. Suddenly, I had all knowledge. All that I had ever heard or known was swept away. I knew that Christ had not died on the cross and that there is no sin or evil. I knew that I had existed since the moment of creation and that I shall always exist and that all consciousness is in the act of becoming. I knew that I had lived many times in physical reality and I watched those expressions and observed each of them. I experienced what we mean when we say that we have free will and that we choose everything. There are no absolutes. I watched every thought I had ever chosen to its natural end, and each person it had touched. Amazing NDE from our archives!

Molly's Dad's NDE E081507. English expanded version 8/18/07 He did make it through, but 6 months later, out of the blue, he told me, "Never be afraid of dying". I looked at him rather strangely, as a discussion about death wasn't something a 14 year old was used to hearing. In this conversation, he told me how he had floated out of his body and watched the frenetic actions of nurses and doctors working on him; a nurse was crying but remained focused on the doctor's directions. My dad then said he had the most incredible feeling of peace and happiness swell over him as he watched. This euphoria lasted along with a big bright light- he remembered how he just wanted to stay with the bright light, but the light in a mystical sort of way communicated that it wasn't time for him to stay. He then returned back to the operating table, as he remembered, with a "thud". This is a great second-hand account!

John L NDE E080907. English expanded version 8/18/07 At first I felt uncomfortable and painful. I tried with all my strength to get out of the situation. I heard a wavy noise. After a period of time, I seemed to fit the situation. Then I could not feel physically. The painful situation vanished. My spirit left my body through my head. I saw a group of people were around my body. It looked like they were working on my body. I felt my spirit was quite far from my body. I could not see exactly what they were doing. My spirit floated into a light environment with light blue background. I felt very quiet and peaceful. NDE with John's commentary on Suicide bombers (Kamikazes').

Lynn NELE. English expanded version 8/17/07 On her last day, she had been lying on the sofa watching television. Her mother heard her speaking and thought she was talking to the TV as she had been known to do that on occasion. She walked into the room to ask her if she wanted some juice or something else to drink. Lynn then asked her mother why Dorothy and Cookie were there (Dorothy was my mother, who Lynn dearly loved, and Cookie was her grandfather, my great-uncle, and she was closer to him than anyone. My mother died in 1969 and Uncle Harry, aka Cookie, died in 1975.). She also named several other people, all of whom had been dead for years, said they were all there looking at her and she wanted to know why. The thing is, Lynn had NO long-term memory and very little short-term memory. Under normal circumstances, she would never have remembered the names of those people, so even if seeing them jogged her memory so she'd be able to actually name them all, the question is...what or who was she seeing??? Cousin's NELE as told by Lori D.

Joe W NDE. English expanded version 8/17/07 Wonderful poem about his NDE - Here's a few verses:

NOW THE BOY LAY UNCONSCIOUS BUT THERE'S A LIGHT THAT HE CAN SEE A GOLDEN LIGHT, "ITS BEAUTIFUL"! IT'S......... LIKE, ETERNITY

IT SURROUNDED HIM WITH AWESOME LOVE AND CARRIED HIM UP HIGH MAGNIFICENCE HAD SURROUNDED HIM HE WAS NOT AFRAID TO DIE

Suzanne B NDE. English expanded version 8/2/07 After passing through this multi-colored effervescence, I rose, gently, through myriad layers of incandescent light that shimmered above me. Each shone brighter than the one before it, forming an array of diamond-like scintilla, and each had a different intensity as well as subtle shadings of white. As I ascended, layer by layer, I felt caressed by a loving warmth and harmony, as my being was emptied of tension, fear, and stress. I was overwhelmed by feelings of compassion and understanding as the beauty of it all took my breath away. The splendor at each level brought tears of joy, so moved was I by the awesome beauty that enveloped and permeated every atom of my body. Never, ever in my life had I felt the kind of love and peace “…that surpasseth understanding.” Nitrous oxide at the dentist.

Mark G's Dad's NDE E071607. English expanded version 7/17/07 He told me how he was about 22 years old. He was working with Lumber, cutting lumber and somehow his arm was cut, really bad. It was gushing blood (I can only think a major artery got cut?). He went to the hospital and my Mom and his mother and father were there at the hospital. He remembers all of a sudden being at the top corner of the room looking down at himself and the doctor and nurses were working on him. He said he could see my mother (his wife) and his mother and father crying and upset. He remembers telling them it was OK and that he was here. He told me then that he was moving and pretty soon he was in "some place". He couldn't describe it except that it was beautiful and that somehow it felt like home and there were a group of people waiting for him. He told me "I knew them. I don't know how I knew them, but I did". He then said he was told that it wasn't his time and that he had to go back. He didn't want to, but he did. He woke up in the hospital and was told he probably shouldn't have made it and that he had died on the table.

Michael S NDE 3137/E070307. English expanded version 7/7/07 I was rocking the chair and hit the back of my skull on the corner of the handle. My mom said she thought I was joking at first because she saw me shaking and stuck to the handle. She realized I had hit my head when she pulled me forward, when I fell on the ground and blood started hitting the ceiling. I remember my mom driving and my grandma holding me in between her legs, with me bent over with a cloth over my head; as they where following a ambulance which they had called. Until this I remember the part where I was above the car which where driving a brown 2door convertible. Then I had just waken up while they where wrapping the bandage over they stitch or staples. The funny thing is I remember the time I was above the brown 2door car convertible, but don't remember the time I was recovering from the injury. NDE due to head injury at age 7. Two Child NDEs

Leonie W NDE. English expanded version 7/7/07 From Australia. I was watching the paramedics perform CPR on me when my glowing companion suggested I might like to go back. I asked her where I would be going back to. With that, two other beings arrived, my grandmothers, one I had never met and one who passed into spirit only 18 months previously. I knew instinctively that I would be safe whatever choice I made. I was surrounded by love. I was encompassed by warmth and a sense of belonging I've never experienced since. I remember looking back at the scene on the ground, with my mother almost hysterical and my father glassy eyed and stony-faced and I made my decision. I looked at the three loving faces around me and told them I couldn't leave my parents like that. They took me to their hearts and filled me with more love than I'd known before or since. NDE at age 5 from being hit by car.

Mari L NDE. English expanded version 7/7/07 From Sweden. My heart stopped and I left my body through my head. I hade no pain then I left my body. If you can't breathe you must came out from your body. But I was a new mother and wanted to se my little girl grown up. I don't wanted to die. I wanted to come back in my body and be with my newborn daughter. But I couldn't. I tried to go back in my body. I was drawing away with a force not of this world. I was looked out and couldn't of own force go back into my body. I cried to God to let me live. I promised God to do thinks that I haven't done. I don't gave up. I tried again and again and again and again... Suddenly God let me go back. NDE associated with childbirth.

Dixie E NDE. English expanded version 7/5/07 I was standing in the doorway of the room where they were actually working on me. I felt in the way. I asked an RN "Should I go into the waiting room? That woman looks really sick." I did not feel connected to my body at all. Nor did I know who she was. I started walking down the hall of the hospital & got very scared when I realized my shoulder was partway through the wall! Nobody was paying any attention to me. Suddenly, I was attached to my feet looking down into a rocky stream of water. Above was a canopy of trees. I felt like the trees were encouraging me to "go." I said NO and it was like diving off a diving board backwards into my body. NDE due to cardiac arrest.

Karen W Variant NDE. English expanded version 7/5/07 "There isn't time to go home or to ER." I sensed him feeling gripped with helplessness and fear as I accepted there was very little he could do. By then we both knew it didn't matter where we were headed, it wasn't going to be in time for whatever was happening. We were stuck right where we were on that two lane country highway and what was going to happen was going to happen right then and there. In awe of the consuming brilliant white light and terrified I was dying, I could feel my husband pushing the car to move faster. The white had consumed all but a dark diminishing silhouette of tree line, the tree line laying flat against the light's protruding various densities of gleaming white beams. The light was so bright I felt a need to shield my eyes. I had an intense fear the light would consume me if I looked away and I was in absolute awe of what I was seeing. Mystical light appeared during serious heart attack. Quite different from usual NDE pattern.

Jeremy M Fear Death Experience. English expanded version 7/5/07 I knew I was going to crash and that I was going to die. Even though I knew death was inevitable I remained remarkably calm and time seemed to almost stop, as though everything was happening in slow motion. The next thing I knew I was in darkness watching a detailed review of my life up to that point in my life. It was like watching a huge cinema screen in 3D and it was incredibly detailed in that it literally covered every event in my life. I remembered events, people and places that I had long forgotten. It was as if I was effectively reliving my entire life although it was done at high speed. I sensed there were beings around me (although I did not actually see them) and they made it clear that they were not judging any part of my life. I got the impression that this was my life, that I should observe it and then consider any aspects that I wished to discuss. Expected car crash. Then very NDE-like experience with life review. Then returned driving car. Happened in Zimbabwe 43 years ago.

