Work, Death, and

Sickness

Tolstoy, Lev Nikolayevich

Published: 1903

Type(s): Short Fiction, Religion

Source: http://en.wikisource.org

About Tolstoy:

Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy, commonly referred to

in English as Leo Tolstoy, was a Russian novelist,

writer, essayist, philosopher, Christian anarchist, pacifist, educational reformer, moral thinker, and an influential member of the Tolstoy family. As a fiction writer Tolstoy is widely regarded as one of the greatest of all novelists, particularly noted for his masterpieces War and Peace and Anna Karenina; in

their scope, breadth and realistic depiction of Russian life, the two books stand at the peak of realistic fiction. As a moral philosopher he was notable for his ideas on

nonviolent resistance through his work The Kingdom of

God is Within You, which in turn influenced such

twentieth-century figures as Mohandas K. Gandhi and

Martin Luther King, Jr.

Source: Wikipedia

Also available on Feedbooks for Tolstoy:

• War and Peace (1869)

• Anna Karenina (1877)

• Where Love is, There God is Also (1885)

• The Death of Ivan Ilych (1886)

• Ivan the Fool (1882)

• Youth (1856)

• Childhood (1852)

• Boyhood (1854)

• Father Sergius (1873)

• The Cossacks (1863) Copyright: This work is available for countries where copyright is Life+70. Note: This book is brought to you by Feedbooks.

http://www.feedbooks.com Strictly for personal use, do not use this file for commercial purposes. THIS is a legend current among the South American

Indians.

God, say they, at first made men so that they had no

need to work: they needed neither houses, nor clothes,

nor food, and they all lived till they were a hundred, and did not know what illness was.

When, after some time, God looked to see how people

were living, he saw that instead of being happy in their life, they had quarrelled with one another, and, each

caring for himself, had brought matters to such a pass

that far from enjoying life, they cursed it.

Then God said to himself: 'This comes of their living

separately, each for himself.' And to change this state of things, God so arranged matters that it became impossible for people to live without working. To avoid suffering from cold and hunger, they were now obliged to build dwellings, and to dig the ground, and to grow and gather fruits and grain.

'Work will bring them together,' thought God.

'They cannot make their tools, prepare and transport

their timber, build their houses, sow and gather their

harvests, spin and weave, and make their clothes, each

one alone by himself.'

'It will make them understand that the more heartily

they work together, the more they will have and the better they will live; and this will unite them.'

Time passed on, and again God came to see how men

were living, and whether they were now happy.

But he found them living worse than before. They

worked together (that they could not help doing), but not all together, being broken up into little groups. And each group tried to snatch work from other groups, and they

hindered one another, wasting time and strength in

their struggles, so that things went ill with them all. Having seen that this, too, was not well, God decided

so as to arrange things that man should not know the

time of his death, but might die at any moment; and he

announced this to them.

'Knowing that each of them may die at any moment,'

thought God, 'they will not, by grasping at gains that

may last so short a time, spoil the hours of life allotted to them.'

But it turned out otherwise. When God returned to see

how people were living, he saw that their life was as bad as ever.

Those who were strongest, availing themselves of the

fact that men might die at any time, subdued those who

were weaker, killing some and threatening others with

death. And it came about that the strongest and their

descendants did no work, and suffered from the weariness of idleness, while those who were weaker had to work beyond their strength, and suffered from lack of

rest. Each set of men feared and hated the other. And

the life of man became yet more unhappy.

Having seen all this, God, to mend matters, decided to

make use of one last means; he sent all kinds of sickness among men. God thought that when all men were exposed to sickness they would understand that those who are well should have pity on those who are sick, and

should help them, that when they themselves fall ill

those who are well might in turn help them.

And again God went away, but when He came back to

see how men lived now that they were subject to sicknesses, he saw that their life was worse even than before. The very sickness that in God's purpose should have united men, had divided them more than ever.

Those men who were strong enough to make others

work, forced them also to wait on them in times of sickness; but they did not, in their turn, look after others who were ill. And those who were forced to work for others and to look after them when sick, were so worn with work that they had no time to look after their own sick, but left them without attendance. That the sight of sick folk might not disturb the pleasures of the wealthy,

houses were arranged in which these poor people

suffered and died, far from those whose sympathy might

have cheered them, and in the arms of hired people who

nursed them without compassion, or even with disgust.

Moreover, people considered many of the illnesses infectious, and, fearing to catch them, not only avoided the sick, but even separated themselves from those who attended the sick. Then God said to Himself: 'If even this means will not

bring men to understand wherein their happiness lies,

let them be taught by suffering.' And God left men to

themselves.

And, left to themselves, men lived long before they understood that they all ought to, and might be, happy. Only in the very latest times have a few of them begun

to understand that work ought not to be a bugbear to

some and like galley-slavery for others, but should be a common and happy occupation, uniting all men. They

have begun to understand that with death constantly

threatening each of us, the only reasonable business of every man is to spend the years, months, hours, and

minutes, allotted him — in unity and love. They have begun to understand that sickness, far from dividing men, should, on the contrary, give opportunity for loving union with one another. Loved this book ?

Similar users also downloaded:

• " Where Love is, There God is Also", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Father Sergius", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " There are No Guilty People", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " An Old Acquaintance", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Little Girls Wiser Than Men", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Evil allures, but good endures", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Ivan the Fool", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Youth", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " The Cossacks", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy

• " Boyhood", Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy www.feedbooks.com

Food for the mind

